"Nevertheless, I'm going. There's another cloak and besides the danger would be greater if
I were alone. Where you go I go, and if you die I die with you--gladly." She twined her fingers
with his and gazed at him appealingly.

"Dantor! This can't be!" He turned to the scientist for support.

The aged scientist studied the two a little while, and then said quietly, "I'm afraid it is
better as she wishes, Carson. I am unable to protect her, my boy, and there is no one else
who might give her shelter. We are the last of the Rulans, she and I. The very last."

"Oh-h!" Ulana moaned, pale and distraught. "All--all are gone?"

"All, my dear. In his rage the Dictator destroyed the Tritu Deanu and the Tritu Raortu when
he had finished here. Those were the last settlements remaining, you know. We alone are left
behind, Ulana." Dantor bowed his head and the girl sobbed silently.

"Good Heavens!" Blaine Carson was aghast at the revelation. A monstrous deed, this last one
of Ianito's. He was a fit master of a world gone mad. A monster in the twisted semblance of
human form.

                     *      *      *      *      *

"He will be searching for you, oh Dantor," the girl said with sudden conviction. She had mastered
her emotions and was instantly alert to every angle of the situation.

"That is true," said the old man gravely. "For myself I have nothing to fear, of course. Though
insanely jealous of my accomplishments, he maintains an armed truce with me. He dares not do
otherwise as the Supreme Council is aware of his shortcomings and cognizant of my superior
knowledge of science. But there is danger to you two. You must make haste."

A trembling of the ground beneath them lent added emphasis to his final words. A quick glance
into the crystal told them that the initial charge was at work in the huge rocket-tube. The
laboratory there at its base was in confusion indescribable, the workmen running hither and
yon in the effort to escape the terrific heat that radiated from the red hot breech of the
tube. They jammed the exits in their anxiety to be anywhere but near this monster source of
energy whose pulsating roar drowned out all other sounds in the vast chamber.

Already Antrid was accelerating in velocity. Her vitals were wrenched and twisted, groaning
in protest.

"Quick now!" Blaine was adjusting one of the invisible cloaks for Ulana. He'd have to take
her with him. And a silent prayer for her safety was on his lips.

Invisible now, and hand in hand, they followed Dantor through the deserted passageways to the
lift which carried them quickly to the roof. A drumming sound came to their ears as they stood
there looking up into the blackness above the blue-white lights of Antrid. Vibrating to the
tremendous roar of the rocket-tube, the copper shell emitted a constantly increasing reverberation
that was like a long drawn peal of thunder on Earth or Venus. It was awe-inspiring, that sonorous
bombilation; deafening.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Dantor was fumbling with the mechanisms of the remote control which Tiedus had used in returning
the basket lift to the car that had brought the two Earth men from Ilen-dar. Again and again
he returned to his manipulations after peering anxiously upward. But the basket did not respond
to the call. They were marooned atop the empty shell of the Tritu Anu!

"Carson! Ulana! Where are you?" the aged scientist shouted above the din, his face a tragic
mask, his lips compressed with anxiety and disappointment.

They grasped him to reassure him, each taking a hand. Carson, placing his lips close to the
old man's ear, inquired anxiously, "What's the trouble?"

"The car does not respond. Something has happened to the motors, probably on account of the
vibration. I can do nothing."

And then, piercingly through the thunderings of the copper shell, a voice broke in--Ianito's
voice. "Dantor!" it shrieked. "At last I have found you. I need your help immediately. Wait
there for the monorail."

Dantor gripped them tightly to enjoin silence. Ianito had located the scientist with the searching
ray and was still watching and listening at his crystal. He seemed not to know that Blaine
and Ulana were there.

"Very well, oh Ianito. I shall wait," Dantor shouted.

"It is good. There is important work to be done." Ianito's words trailed off into the maelstrom
of sound that swirled about them.

"He's cut off," the scientist yelled. "There is but one chance now. You must come with me,
depending on absolute silence and your cloaks to deceive them. It is the only way."

                     *      *      *      *      *

Ulana clung to him there in the terrifying bedlam and Blaine's fingers strayed to the comforting
butt of the ray pistol. Whatever happened there were a few charges left; blasts of energy that
would serve at least to postpone the end for Ulana. Or, if worse came to worst--

The sudden rush of a monorail car high overhead interrupted his thoughts. "Close to me now!"
Dantor shouted; "but have a care lest one of them touch you and discover--"

A cable-hung cage dropped swiftly to the roof and they crowded in beside the scientist. Quickly
it whisked them aloft to the higher plane.

In the monorail car Blaine held the girl close, and they trod softly as they dodged the guard
at the porthole and stepped into the passenger compartment. Two of Ianito's technical experts
were there and a crew of at least a dozen of the green-bronze giants. Unseen by any, the couple
tiptoed to the farthest corner of the compartment and took seats in a recessed section.

With a quick jerk and the rising whine of motors, the suspended vehicle started back in the
direction of Ilen-dar. In earnest conversation with Ianito's engineers, Dantor affected an
air of nonchalance that was artfully disarming. The Llotta suspected nothing as the car continued
on its way.

And then there came an ominous grinding sound from underneath the very seat occupied by the
invisible fugitives. A puff of dense black smoke followed and Ulana coughed spasmodically,
uncontrollably. They were coming now, two of the green-bronze ones, to investigate. There was
no escape from this narrow space. And--Ulana was gone! She had slipped from his grasp in the
coughing fit and he could not find her with his wildly searching hands. Another betraying cough
over there. The green-bronze ones were between them. He saw one of them draw back in amazement,
then clench his fingers and twist.

The ripping sound of torn material followed and the girl's head and startled face appeared:
floating there, unsupported, her body and limbs as yet invisible. But they'd found her; she
was lost!

CHAPTER IX

Ianito

Quickly stripping the protecting cloak from her body, the green-bronze one held the struggling
girl gingerly but with a grip of iron. There was a shore somewhere before me, and I must get to
it, by the ordinary means, before the ebb laid bare the flats, or swept me below the lower bends
of the stream. That was all.

Suddenly a light gleamed for an instant before me, as if from a house in a grove of great trees upon
a bank; and I knew that it came from the window of a ruined plantation-building,
where our most advanced outposts had their headquarters.

The flash revealed to me every point of the situation.

I saw at once where I was, and how I got there: that the tide had turned while I was swimming,
and with a much briefer interval of slack-water than I had been led to suppose,--that I had been
swept a good way down stream, and was far beyond all possibility of regaining the point I had left.

Could
I, however, retain my strength to swim one or two hundred yards farther, of which I had no doubt,--and
if the water did not ebb too rapidly, of which I had more fear,--then I was quite safe. Every stroke
took me more and more out of the power of the current, and there
might even be an eddy to aid me.

I could not afford to be carried down much farther, for there the channel made a sweep toward
the wrong side of the river; but there was now no reason why I should not reach land. I could
dismiss all fear, indeed, except that of being fired upon by our own sentinels, many of whom
were then new recruits, and with the usual disposition to shoot first and investigate afterwards.

I
found myself swimming in shallow and shallower water, and the flats seemed almost bare when
I neared the shore, where the great gnarled branches of the liveoaks hung far over the muddy
bank. Floating on my back for noiselessness, I paddled rapidly in with my hands, expecting
momentarily to hear the challenge of the picket, and the ominous click so likely to follow. I knew
that some one should be pacing to and fro, along that beat, but could
not tell at what point he might be at that precise moment.

Besides, there was a faint possibility that some chatty corporal might have carried the news of
my bath thus far along the line, and they might be partially prepared for this unexpected visitor.
Suddenly, like another flash, came the quick, quaint challenge,--

"Halt!

Who's go dar?"

                     

"F-f-friend with the c-c-countersign," retorted I, with chilly, but conciliatory energy, rising
at full length out of the shallow water, to show myself a man and a brother.

"Ac-vance, friend, and give de countersign," responded the literal soldier, who at such a tune would
have accosted: a spirit of light or goblin damned with no other formula.

I advanced and gave it, he recognized my voice at once.

| And then and there, as I stood, a dripping ghost, beneath the f trees before him, the unconscionable
fellow, wishing to exhaust upon me the utmost resources of military hospitality, deliberately
presented arms!

Now a soldier on picket, or at night, usually presents arms to nobody; but a sentinel on camp-guard
by day is expected to perform that ceremony to anything in human shape that has two rows of
buttons.

Here was a human shape, but so utterly buttonless that it exhibited not even a rag to which
a button could by any earthly possibility be appended, button-less
even potentially; and my blameless Ethiopian presented arms to even
this.

Where, then, are the theories of Carlyle, the axioms of "Sartor Resartus,"
the inability of humanity to conceive "a naked Duke of Windlestraw
addressing a naked House of Lords"? It is good,
and fits in with my plans to a nicety. I shall spare the life of the Earth man on account of
his knowledge of the inner planets; I can use him later. The girl I shall spare for a different
reason, and that fits in with my plans as well."

                     *      *      *      *      *

What did he mean by that last crack, the grinning devil? A sinister intent was there, behind
his smooth talk. Blaine half rose from his seat in quick anger, but the girl's gentle touch
on his arm restrained him. She depended on him now and he'd have to go easy until the proper
time came.

"Impetuous, aren't they?" Ianito was saying, "these Earth men. A characteristic that must get
them into much trouble, even in their own world."

Laughing at him, this hell-hound! Blaine gritted his teeth.

The Dictator addressed him directly. "You are a fortunate young man," he drawled sarcastically.
"You have slain several of my trusted retainers and by so doing have forfeited your right to
life. But Ianito is forgiving. Mechanized, you will be of value to me when the great day comes.
And it pleases me that you are so deeply attached to the Rulan maiden; it pleases me greatly."

"Why?" Blaine snapped, a great rage consuming him. Only the pressure of Ulana's fingers held
him back. He would have to control his temper or he'd make a mess of things.

"Because, my dear Carson, it will so displease the Zara."

With this cryptic remark he turned on his heel and left them. A number of his technical experts
awaited him at the eyepiece of the great telescope.

Dantor whispered swiftly before following him, "Keep up your courage, Carson. A way may yet
be found."

The group by the telescope was an excited one. Something had occurred which must be of great
moment. It came to Blaine in a flash that the reverberations of the copper shell of Antrid
had ceased. The rocket-tube was silent.

"I don't know why we shouldn't be in on this," he said to the girl. "Let's go over there and
see what it's all about."

                     *      *      *      *      *

One of the astronomers was reporting to Ianito, referring to a sheet of calculations he held
in nervous fingers. "Our orbital velocity has increased greatly," he was saying, "and the new
path lies at an average distance of eighty-three erds from the mother planet. According to
my figures it will require six more charges to free us from her pull and another to redirect
us toward our destination."

Eighty-three erds! Practically a million Earth miles. Already they had swung out to a new orbit
between those of Ganymede and Callisto. And what of the effect on the other satellites? Blaine
listened carefully as the astronomer continued.

"Perturbations in the movements of the other bodies in our own system are marked, and, in the
case of the first satellite, have proved disastrous. It has commenced its inward journey and
soon will have fallen into the gaseous envelope of the mother body. But this need occasion
us no concern; it is small and there will be stabilization of the others after the second charge
is fired."

Colossal conceit! What amazing ignorance or oversight of natural laws! These Llott scientists
could see no farther than their snub noses, or at least no farther than the satellite system
of Jupiter. And Ianito was complimenting the astronomer on his good work!

The group broke up now and the Dictator turned to the controls of his crystal sphere. Blaine
and Ulana caught the view of the underground laboratory at the base of the great rocket-tube.

All was as it had been when they first saw this chamber. The breech of the huge cannon had
cooled and its massive block was open. Tommy was there, fishing the radium capsule from the
powdery residue in order that it might be used in exciting the next charge. A mechanical precision
marked his every motion.

"It is good," Ianito grunted, flicking a lever that cut off the view. "We are progressing nicely,
thanks to the generosity of the Earth beings in providing this k-metal."

His sarcastic grin was infuriating. Dantor cast a warning look in the Earth man's direction.
It wouldn't do to lock horns with this self-satisfied despot; at any rate, not now. Blaine's
mien was expressionless as he faced him.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The view in the crystal was another familiar one when Ianito made a quick readjustment: the
throne room in the palace of the Zara! The Dictator snorted when he saw that Clyone was reclining
lazily on her golden couch, submitting graciously to the ministrations of her handmaidens.

"Faithless creature!" he snarled. "Harlot! Parricide! But at last Ianito will have his revenge."

The hate in his voice and in those terrible glass-hard eyes was devastating in its intensity:
implacable, relentless. Yet Blaine could not down the exultant feeling that came to him when
he saw that this monster could suffer, too.

"What's the matter?" he sneered. "Did she throw you down?" He could have bitten off his tongue
as he spoke. Ulana gasped.

And if Ianito had been in a rage before he was a madman now. Despite his contempt of the misshapen
creature, Blaine quailed before the murderous glare that answered his rash words. But the Dictator
was master of himself, at that; his lips tightened in a thin line and he held his peace. He
actually smiled after a moment, the devil, a smile, though, of evil triumph. He turned once
more to the crystal and switched on the sound mechanism.

"Clyone," he called, in velvety voice; "it is Ianito."

She looked up, startled, her chalky face gone whiter still. Her jeweled fingers fluttered to
the smooth throat.

"I hear you," she replied shakily. "What do you wish of me."

"Nothing much--this time. I have visitors who request an audience with you, oh Clyone. Can
you see them at once?"

"Who--who are they?" Her eyes widened at his insinuating tone.

"An Earth man--Carson--and the Rulan maiden who is to become his mate." Ianito chuckled evilly
as he watched her expression.

"Carson?" she whispered, her wild eyes softening, "He--he lives?" Black hatred replaced the
wondering joy that had glowed in her face. She was thinking of the statement regarding the
Rulan maiden. "Why, yes," she snapped, suddenly very much alert; "I can see them. Send them
immediately."

The Dictator chortled as he switched off the power. Dantor paled and looked away. So this was
his scheme! He was sending Ulana to certain death at the hands of the leopard woman. Blaine
bit his lips until they bled. If only he had one of their ray pistols again. If he had--

                     *      *      *      *      *

Ianito was at his side, whispering. But he couldn't see him; the devil had donned one of Dantor's
invisible cloaks. Something hard pressed deep into his ribs.

"I shall be with you," the Dictator told him, "but she will not know. It is necessary, of course,
that I watch over you in order that your deportment be suitable to the occasion. The death
ray of Antrid is ready in my hands. Proceed, you and the Rulan maid, and see to it that you
give her every attention while in the Zara's presence."

Dantor interposed an objection, "But, Ianito, you promised to spare them. I learned to love
these two and want no harm to come their way."

"I keep my promise, oh Dantor. Ianito will not harm them."

"But the Zara."

"What Clyone does is none of my concern. Silence, Dantor; I command it! You will remain here."
The voice of the Dictator cut like a knife.

The old Rulan scientist bowed his head and turned away. Good old Dantor! He'd done all in his
power to help them. This was the end; not a question of doubt. Blaine Carson drew the Rulan
maiden fiercely to him. This Clyone might meet some opposition if she attempted to wreak her
spite on Ulana; she would meet it. There was no need for Ianito to ask that he pay every attention
to the lovely, frightened girl who clung to him so trustingly.

They were in the lift then, dropping swiftly into the palace beneath the great dome that topped
Antrid.

"This Clyone," Ulana whispered, "she has great power of enticement, my Carson. I fear for your
loss--to me. She will take you from me, and I shall be alone--or dead. Death would be the better."

"Never!" said Blaine huskily. "Never, my dear. She has no power over me; nor will I permit
her to bring suffering to you."

Ianito laughed then, an ugly cackle that came out of the unseen.

CHAPTER X

Clyone and Ulana

The Zara received them in the throne room, alone. Blaine hesitated as he crossed the threshold,
Ulana's trembling fingers tightly clasped in his own. The quick prod of the invisible ray pistol
warned him that Ianito was at his heels.

Clyone uncurled her sinuous, black-sheathed body and rose to her feet as they neared the dais.

"Welcome, oh Carson," she purred. "Clyone has mourned you as dead, but she mourns no longer.
A kind fate has returned you."

The gold-flecked eyes were all for him; it was as if she did not see his companion. Blaine
fought the spell of her with all that was in him. He did not reply.

"Come to me, Carson," she pleaded, her lashes lowered. "Leave this Rulan girl and come to me."

"Where I go she goes," he replied firmly.

"Very well then," said the Zara meekly, "bring her with you. I would converse with her as with
you."

Something new, this was: a gentleness Blaine had never thought the leopard woman could exhibit,
even in sham. And her eyes, when she raised them, still were gentle. She extended a white arm
and smiled provocatively. If this was a ruse, if she meant harm to the Rulan maid, her acting
was superb. And, from what he had seen of the woman previously, he was almost convinced of
her sincerity. A nature like hers was incapable of successful dissimulation. Still, he was
suspicious and he shielded Ulana with his body as they came up to the throne. The Zara studied
them in silence for a while. Then she spoke.

"Let me look at you, my dear," she said to the Rulan maiden.

                     *      *      *      *      *

And Ulana, unafraid, faced her boldly. His muscles tensed, Blaine watched every movement of
the Zara's straying fingers. But her gaze was direct and kindly; there was no dissembling here.
It was not the same Clyone he had previously known.

"You are very beautiful, Ulana," she said softly. "Do you love this Earth man very much?"

"I do, Your Majesty."

"And you, Carson, you love her--very much?"

His answer was wordless. A sudden lump in his throat choked back the vigorous affirmative and
he merely nodded, mute, as he enfolded the slight form of Ulana in his arms.

"Carson--are you sure?" Clyone was pleading, her eyes compelling; tender. Ulana drew away from
his arms, waiting.

What had come over the leopard woman? She was a creature of mad vagaries, he knew, and yet
this was the most convincing mood he had seen. Despite his knowledge of her past; despite his
better judgment, he was drawn toward her. A step, and then quick revulsion of feeling. He recoiled
and turned swiftly to Ulana.

Clyone saw and understood. Her tender mood was over in a flash and she crouched there, terrible
jealous eyes fixed on the Rulan maiden. She extended a white arm with jeweled fingers, pointing.
Blaine swung quickly, brushing the arm aside just as that intangible something flashed from
her hand. The energy of the black disks! It had missed Ulana by inches, but crashed home--on
something!

                     *      *      *      *      *

A scream of terror rang out in the chamber, and there on the floor a dozen paces from the dais
the thing that had been Ianito wriggled under the heap of whirring black things that suddenly
covered the invisible form. He wriggled and then lay still as the angry buzzing of the black
destroyers rose in triumphant, discordant song.

"Ianito!" the Zara exclaimed, thunderstruck. They had no mountain passes to defend like the Maroons of Jamaica,--no
unpenetrable swamps, like the Maroons of Surinam.

Where they had these, even on a small scale, they had used them,--as in certain swamps round
Savannah and in the everglades of Florida, where they united with the Indians, and would stand
fire--so I was told by General Saxton, who had fought them there--when the Indians would retreat.

It
always seemed to me that, had I been a slave, my life would have been one long scheme of insurrection.
 Cursing her like a
schoolboy and using the language of the lower class Venerians!

"Please, Carson, please," she moaned; "do it. Choke me if you will and release me from my torment.
I am yours to do with as you please." Throwing back her proud head, she bared her throat.

Blaine took a step forward, his knees weak beneath him.

"Carson!" It was Ulana, her hand soft on his arm.

He drew the back of his hand across his eyes. This was madness! But was ever a woman so deserving
of death? Incomprehensible half-animal creature, she sat there rocking to and fro, waiting.

"No!" he said. "No! Only let us go in peace, Clyone. Your sins be on your own head. Your realization
of them is punishment enough."

"Wait!" Controlling herself now, she rose once more, and her face was transfigured. Almost
it seemed that she was happy. "Wait!" she repeated. "You are free to go when I have finished,
but first Clyone wishes to bid you farewell."

                     *      *      *      *      *

They faced her in silent wonderment.

"Ianito is gone," she continued, "and the Llotta are helpless without him, unless I take over
their leadership in fact. He was my master, I admit. But Clyone is able to carry on with the
plans he conceived; able, but no longer willing. Clyone is abdicating. It but remains for you,
Carson, to put a stop to this thing they are doing down there at the great rocket-tube. You
can do it, I am certain. Go now; and think not too badly of Clyone when you have gone. Farewell."

With a quick motion she raised her fingers to her lips, then tossed a small vial crashing to
the floor.

"Carson--she has taken something," Ulana stifled a hysterical sob as she spoke. "Go to her.
It is the least you can do."

Blaine caught the leopard woman in his arms and lowered her gently to the luxurious cushions
of the throne she had occupied for so long a time, a queen in name only. Already the gold-flecked
eyes were glazing and they begged him piteously.

"Kiss me." Her lips formed the words, but no sound came.

Ulana was there, on her knees and crying. "Carson, you must," she urged him.

The spirit of Clyone, with its great burden of evil and some little of good, left the beautiful
body as the Earth man pressed his lips to hers. An unwonted smile, placid and content, wreathed
the still features.

The Zara was no more.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Stunned and shaken by what they had seen, they hurried from the chamber of death. Blaine located
the lift and they were quickly carried to the laboratory. 

The officers and men are scattered far and wide. One of our captains was a member of the South Carolina
Constitutional Convention, and is now State Treasurer; three of our
sergeants were in that Convention, including Sergeant Prince Rivers;
and he and Sergeant Henry Hayne are still members of the State Legislature.

Both in that State and hi Florida the former members of the regiment are generally prospering, so
far as I can hear. The increased self-respect of army life fitted them to do the duties of civil life.
 They knew that Antrid was swinging ever outward from the mother planet.

"You must do it alone," Dantor was saying; "you and Ulana. I have no control over these Llotta.
I am here only on sufferance of Ianito, and Ianito is no more. But they know it not. These
in the dome think he is with you now, cloaked in invisibility. The tale of the cloaks has been
broadcast. You are safe for the present and can descend to the base of the rocket with impunity.
Ianito's name is the password. And here is a ray pistol, fully charged; two of them. He left
them in his desk. Go now, quickly."

"The way--how do we get there?" Blaine's fingers closed lovingly over the butts of the pistols
and he thrust them in his pockets.

"Oh yes. The lift--the one that carried you to the palace--its shaft ends deep down beneath
the natural surface of Antrid in a tunnel where a moving platform will carry you to your friend.
May your God and the gods of ancient Antrid be with you."

Once more they were in the cage of the lift, dropping with breath-taking speed. Down into the
bowels of the satellite they sped and it seemed the shaft would never end.

                     *      *      *      *      *

