About half-an-hour passed in this way. Then I observed a young German ambling along the corridor.
He came up to us and entered into an idle conversation. One by one the others dropped away
from him, not caring to talk with a German. I would have done the same but the strange youth
would not let me. He pinned me to the spot with his conversation. At first his questions were
extremely innocent, but they soon became somewhat inquisitive and searching, and were purposely
directed to discover why I was travelling, where I had been, how long I had been in Germany,
and so forth. As the conversation assumed this turn I came to the alert. He was a typical German
with all the inexperience of youth, though he doubtless prided himself upon his powers of observation,
deduction, and cross-examination by apparently idle questions. But to one and all of his interrogations
I gave the retort courteous. His pressing attentions did not escape the notice of my fellow-travellers
within earshot. Looking out of the corner of my eye I saw that they did not regard this questioning
of myself as being so innocent as it appeared. Many were apparently familiar with German methods
of inter-espionage and they extended me silent warning, by sign, frown, and wink.

The raw youth disappeared and I forgot all about him. But to my surprise five minutes later
I saw him returning along the corridor accompanied by a military official whom he had evidently
brought from the military carriage attached to the train. They came straight up to me. The
youth pointing directly at me remarked,

"Here he is. See! There's the camera on his back!"

The officer looked at the strap and turning me round caught sight of the camera case. He nodded
in acquiescence.

"And I saw him using it," went on the youth triumphantly. "He has been taking photographs of
the bridges and sentries along the line!"

I was distinctly amused at this charge because it was absolutely untrue. But I was somewhat
impressed by the strange silence which had settled upon my fellow-travellers and the inscrutable
look upon the officer's face. Something serious was evidently amiss. I turned to the officer.

"The accusation is absurd. Why! Look at the windows! They have been kept closed all the time
according to the military orders. And you could not take a photograph through the closed windows
even if you wanted to. They are too begrimed with dirt."

The officer did not say a word but continued to eye me narrowly.

I began to feel uncomfortable before that piercing gaze, so I decided to floor the aspiring
detective working so zealously for the Fatherland and to point out the danger of jumping at
conclusions. I turned to him:

"You say you saw me taking photographs?"

"Yes, with that camera on your back."

"You are quite sure?"

"Yes!"

I swung the case which had been so offensive to his eyes round to the front of me.

"Now I'll ask you again. You are quite certain you saw me taking photographs?"

"Ach! I distinctly saw you take the camera out of the case, take the pictures, and then put
it back again!" was his rejoinder given with great emphasis.

I did not attempt to argue any further. I clicked the catch of the case. The lid flew open.
Both the officer and the youth craned forward expectantly, to draw back, the officer giving
vent to a smothered ejaculation.

The camera case was full of cigarettes.

Being a heavy smoker I had stocked myself with cigarettes with which I had filled the camera
case. I turned them out into my hands leaving the case empty.

The youth's face was a study. He was so completely trapped in his lying that he went all colours,
while his jaw dropped. My fellow passengers who had been watching and listening in profound
silence gave expression to uproarious mirth at the complete manner in which the immature detective
had been bowled out. But their mirth was misplaced. A German resents discomfiture. The officer,
too, was not disposed to throw over his subordinate, who undoubtedly had been acting in accordance
with orders. Looking me steadily in the face the officer placed his hand on my shoulder and
in cold tones said,

"I formally charge you with being a spy in the pay of the British Government!"

CHAPTER II

COMMITTED TO WESEL PRISON

To say that I was completely dumbfounded by this accusation is to express my feelings very
mildly. But, with an effort, I succeeded in keeping my sang-froid, which I am afraid only served
to convince the officer that he was correct in his charge.

He assailed me with interrogations, demanded my passport, and after perusing it closely, enquired
why I was travelling to Russia at such a time. "Why!" he pointed out, "you only left England
on August 1st, when Russia and Germany were on the eve of war!"

I gave a detailed explanation of my mission, but I failed to shake his suspicions. I had to
surrender my ticket for inspection and this caused him to frown more heavily than ever.

"Where is your camera?"

I produced two which were in my pockets, keeping my tiny companion in its secret resting place.

At the sight of the two cameras he gave a smile of complete self-satisfaction. He handed them
to the guard together with my ticket. Turning on his heel he remarked:

"You'll ask for these articles when you reach Wesel!"

As he strode down the corridor the serious character of my situation dawned upon me. It will repay us
to examine the Diary more closely, since Humboldt only treated it shortly and in scattered extracts,
and it has been partly falsified, unintentionally, by attempts to modernize the language instead
of adhering to literal translation.
 My arrest at Wesel was inevitable.

I was carrying one or two other articles, such as a revolver, about me. I saw that although
they were apparently harmless, and could be fully explained, they would incriminate me only
still more. I promptly got rid of them. I had half-a-mind to discard my little camera also,
but somehow or other I could not bring myself to part with this. I thought it might come in
useful. Moreover there was very little likelihood of it being discovered unless I was stripped.
So I left it where it was. Afterwards I was thankful I acted upon second thoughts on that occasion.

The outlook was certainly discouraging and when the train stopped at Wesel--outside the station
I afterwards discovered--I acted on the impulse for self-preservation, darted along the corridor,
found a place of concealment and tucked myself in. Now I realise that this was the worst thing
I could have done, but then my thoughts were centred upon effecting my escape, in the half-hope
that the Germans, unable to find me, would assume that I had surreptitiously left the train.

But I misjudged German thoroughness, especially when a suspected spy is the quarry. Fifteen,
thirty, fifty minutes slipped by and still the train did not move. The other passengers were
not being regarded kindly at my non-appearance. So, stealing out of my hiding place I sauntered
as composedly as I could along the corridor to come face to face with the officer, who with
his guard was diligently searching every nook and cranny and cross-questioning the other passengers.
Directly he caught sight of me he sprang forward, uttering a command. The next instant I was
surrounded by soldiers. I was under arrest.

The officer gave a signal from a window and the train pulled into the station. I was hustled
unceremoniously on to the platform, where eight soldiers closed around me to form an escort
and I was marched forward. As we crossed the platform the locomotive whistle shrieked, and
about 9.30 p.m. the last train to leave Berlin on the outbreak of war bore my companions homewards.

Personally I was disposed to regard the whole episode as a joke, and an instance of Teuton
blind blundering. The gravity of the situation never struck me for an instant. I argued with
myself that I should speedily prove that I was the victim of circumstances and would be able
to convince the military of my bona fides without any great effort.

But as I reflected it dawned upon me that my arrest had been skilfully planned. The youth on
the train, whom I never saw again, had played but a minor part in the drama of which I was
the central figure. My departure must have been communicated from Berlin. Otherwise how should
Wesel have learned that a spy had been arrested? The station was besieged with a wildly shouting
excited crowd who bawled:

"English spy! English spy! Lynch him! Lynch him!"

I was bundled into a military office which had evidently been hurriedly extemporised from a
lumber room. The crowd outside increased in denseness and hostility. They were shouting and
raving with all the power of their lungs. These vocal measures proving inadequate, stones and
other missiles commenced to fly. They could not see through the windows of the room so an accurately
thrown brick shivered the pane of glass. Through the open space I caught glimpses of the most
ferocious and fiendish faces it has ever been my lot to witness. Men and women vied with one
another in the bawling and ground their teeth when they caught sight of me.

The excitement was intense and the chant "Bring him out! Give him to us! Let us lynch him!
Down with the English spy!" even began to grate upon me. At the time it appeared to me to be
somewhat extraordinary, seeing that we were not at war with Germany, but it conveyed a graphic
illustration of the anti-British sentiment prevailing in the military centre. Indeed, the crowd
became so menacing that my guard became apprehensive of my safety, and I was hurriedly thrust
into an inner room. My removal there was more abrupt than dignified. I was hustled to the door.
Then a German soldier, by an adroit movement of his rifle which he held reversed, pricked my
leg with the bayonet and at the same time brought the butt against my head with a resounding
thwack! Simultaneously he let drive with his heavily-booted foot in the small of my back. I
discovered afterwards, from actual experience, that this is a very favourite movement of the
rifle by the Germans, and is used on every possible occasion.

The outcome of this action was to send me sprawling headlong into the room to pull up with
a crash against the floor. The entrance was rendered additionally dangerous to myself because
I stumbled over the legs of several sleeping soldiers. I felt inclined to remonstrate with
the officer-in-charge of the escort at the treatment I was receiving, but the uninviting armed
sentry at the door frustrated my efforts very effectively.

It was an improvised guard-room. The soldiers sprawled upon the straw littering the floor,
striving to snatch a brief rest before going on duty, sleepily raised themselves to ascertain
the cause of the disturbance. The sentry told them excitedly the charge upon which I had been
arrested, at which the men turned to blink wonderingly upon the "Englandische Spion!" I was
not sorry when they at last wearied of gazing upon me as if I were a freak side-show, and sank
down to finish their two hours' rest before going on guard once more.

I had barely recovered my senses when the door again flew open and two further prisoners were
injected into the room in a manner comparable with my own entrance. They were Hindoo students--young
fellows returning to England after a continental holiday, who had been detained. Both were
somewhat alarmed, but I speedily composed them. Later there was a repetition of the performance
to admit three more Indian students. We all agreed that the German methods of introduction
were decidedly novel and forceful if informal and unpleasant. The latest arrivals, however,
were detained for only a short while. They were rich in funds and were equally astute in their
distribution of largesse to advantage. Money talked in their instance to distinct effect. The
three of us who were left maintained a conversation in whispers and finally came to the conclusion
that the best thing we could do was to seek sleep so as to be fit for the enquiry which was
certain to take place.

I was dog-tired, but the authorities, as represented by the sentries, were not disposed to
let us enjoy what they were denied. The guard was constantly changing and the clattering and
rasping of orders and commands repeatedly woke us up. Then again, at frequent intervals, the
sentry would enter. Seeing me asleep he would either give me a prod with his bayonet or a smart
rap with the butt-end of his rifle to wake me up, the idea no doubt being to impress upon me
the serious nature of my position and to inflict upon me the utmost discomfort.

Being prevented from sleeping and commencing to feel the pangs of hunger, having eaten nothing
since lunch upon the train, I asked for something to eat. The sentry was very sorry but related
that food was quite out of the question because none of the officers in charge of me from whom
he could obtain the necessary instructions were available.

[*large gap]

The absence of the officers was explained a little later. They had been searching for an interpreter,
so that I might be put through another inquisition. This interpreter was about the most incompetent
of his class that one could wish to meet. His English was execrable--far worse than Chinese
pidgin--and he had an unhappy and disconcerting manner of intermingling German and English
words, while either through a physical defect or from some other cause, he could not pronounce
his consonants correctly.

I was taken through the usual rigmarole such as I had at first experienced at Goch. The evidence
also, as usual, was committed to paper. It was a perfunctory enquiry, however, and was soon
completed. Published Translations of the following Authors have been used:

SANSCRIT.--Jones, Wilson, Arnold, anonymous translator in a publication
of the Society for Resuscitation of Ancient Literature.

LATIN AND GREEK.--Lightfoot, Jowett, Farrar, Lodge, Dalrymple, Bigg, Pilkington, Hodgkin, De Montalembert,
Gary, Lok, Murray, Gibb, a translator in Bonn's Classics.
ITALIAN.--Gary, Longfellow, Cayley, Robinson, Kelly, Bent, Hoole,
Roscoe, Leigh Hunt, Lofft, Astley, Oliphant. What the interpreter really said was "Ah! No, you can't go!"
As I rubbed my bruised head I treated that interpreter to a candid opinion of his English speaking
qualifications, but he did not understand half what I said.

As I realised nothing further could be done that night I lay down to snatch another rest. But
after midnight my trials and troubles increased. Every few minutes the door would rattle and
be clanked open to admit an officer who had brought a number of friends to see the latest sensation--the
English spies. The friends, who were brother-officers, regarded us with a strange interest,
while the officer who had charge of me strutted to and fro like a peacock drawn to his full
height, at the unique greatness thrust upon him, and dwelling at great length upon the enormity
of our offence related a weird story about my capture.

Upon such occasions I and my two Hindoo companions were compelled to stand at attention. At
first I regarded the incident with amusement, but after we had been through the circus-like
performance about a dozen times, it became distinctly irksome, especially as I was dog-tired.
It was with the greatest difficulty I maintained my self-control.

About four o'clock in the morning I heard voices in the adjoining room. Evidently someone in
authority had arrived. I decided to seize the opportunity to secure an interview with one who
at least would be able to give me some satisfaction. I moved smartly towards the door. The
sentry lowered his rifle, but I evaded the bayonet, I saw a flash and then all was darkness.

Some time later I woke up. I was lying at full length upon the floor and my head was singing
like a kettle, while it ached fearfully. I opened my eyes but for some minutes could descry
nothing but stars. As I came round I made out the dim forms of the two Hindoo students bending
over me. They were extremely agitated, but their peace of mind became restored somewhat when
I at last sat up. Then they explained what had happened. After I had dodged the bayonet the
soldier had swung his rifle round bringing the butt end smartly down upon my head and had knocked
me silly. From the pain I suffered and the size of the lump which I could feel I tacitly agreed
that I had received a pretty smart rap.

I felt round for the tin of cigarettes which I had extemporised to form a pillow before the
incident, but was suddenly reminded that smoking was very much verboten. Regarding the tin
longingly I absent-mindedly opened it. To my surprise I found that the fifty cigarettes which
it had originally contained had dwindled down to one! I looked at the sentry and smiled quietly
to myself. Rising to my feet I held out the open tin to him.

"You've been helping yourself while I have been asleep and I think you might as well take the
last one," I muttered sarcastically.

The phlegmatic sentry looked at me cunningly. His face lapsed into a broad grin. Growling "danker!"
(thank you!) he calmly took it and lighted up. From this incident I discovered that even a
thick-skulled, dull-witted German infantryman has a bump of humour.

The din which still reigned around the station told me that the crowd was impatient to see
me. In fact Bedlam appeared to have been let loose. The news of my capture had spread through
Wesel like wildfire, and public animosity and hostility towards me had risen to fever-heat.
During the night the crowd had swollen considerably, and it clung tenaciously to the station
in the hope of having some glorious fun at my expense.

At six o'clock an officer entered with one or two subordinates and a squad of soldiers. Certain
formalities had to be gone through in which I played a prominent part. These completed the
officer stood before me with all the pomposity he could command and delivered a harangue at
high speed in a worrying monotone. To me it was gibberish, but one of the men who could speak
English informed me that the gist of his wail was the intimation that "if I moved a pace to
the right, or a pace to the left, or fell back a pace, or hurried a pace during the march to
the Wesel Arresthaus--Wesel Prison--I would be shot down immediately." I mentally decided to
obey the injunction to the absolute letter, and must admit that never before or since during
my life have I walked such a straight line.

With four soldiers behind with lowered bayonets, four in front and two on either side we moved
out of the station. The clock was chiming seven, but the droning of the clock was drowned by
the howls of rage, snarlings, screeches, shrieks and groans of fury which went up from the
mob the moment they caught sight of us. Despite my self-control I winced. Directly we gained
the roadway an ugly rush was made. I thought I was doomed to be torn limb from limb, for I
was overwhelmed by a sea of itching hands, shaking fists, and gnashing teeth. The escort wavered
and was all but overwhelmed. Although it quivered ominously before the mob assault it stood
its ground. Swinging their rifles over their heads the soldiers lashed out with the butt-ends.
A sharp order rang out. We turned about and hastily returned to the station. Here the officer
demanded a double escort, which was granted, and we made another attempt to reach the Arresthaus.

But the increased parade of military power only served to infuriate the crowd still more. They
surged, swayed, and pressed, and howled, groaned, and shrieked as if bereft. Baulked in their
desire to snatch us from the soldiers they began to fling missiles of all descriptions. Fortunately
they were too excited to throw with pronounced accuracy, although my two Hindoo companions
and I were struck several times with vegetables. Then a bottle came singing through the air.
I ducked, but it struck the soldier beside me full on the side of the face to shatter into
a score of pieces. The blow was so terrific as to cause a gaping wound in the soldier's face,
extending from his temple to his chin. The blood spurted out. The wounded man saluted, and
requested the officer to permit him to drop out to have his wound dressed. But the officer
curtly refused, and so the unfortunate soldier was compelled to walk, or rather to stumble,
beside me, the blood pouring from his lacerated face.

As we turned into the square immediately facing the entrance to the prison I blanched. The
mob which had gathered here was so dense, and was lashed to such a high pitch of vicious fury,
that I felt convinced we should have to succumb to overwhelming numbers. The air was thick
with missiles, and the soldiers suffered severely, although we three prisoners were not often
struck. The soldiers tolerated the fusillade with the best grace they could command for some
time, but even their endurance had its limits, and at last they turned. But the crowd was by
no means daunted. By hook or by crook they intended to prevent us reaching the prison, and,
they having closed behind us, we were completely hemmed in.

"Our last chance! Give them to us! English spies! Seize them, comrades! Lynch them! Lynch them!"
were the coarse cries which rang out without ceasing.

It was a thrilling and critical moment. The mass of screaming men and women was now so dense
that we could not move. The soldiers could no longer even swing their rifles. The outstretched
hands of the mob were snapping and tearing within an inch or two of my coat. Had I swayed a
trifle they must have grasped me.

A shrill whistle rang out. The prison door was flung open and a number of soldiers came out
at the double with arms lowered, while the officers were waving their swords. The crowd around
the entrance fell back, and the next moment a passage was being cleaved through the mass of
raving humanity. This sudden appearance of extra force created a diversion of which our escort
took advantage. We slipped through the gap which had been cut in the crowd, and the next moment
were in the prison. As the gate closed with a resounding bang I gave a sigh of relief. We were
safe from mob violence whatever other fate might be in store for us. Personally, although I
passed through many exciting experiences subsequently, and was often a victim of Prussian brutality,
I regard that march from the station to the prison at Wesel as the most dangerous few minutes
which I have ever encountered.

We were promptly taken into an office and subjected to another inquisition. The questions were
merely repetitions of those I had already answered half-a-dozen times previously. Then I was
submitted to my second search. I was ordered to throw my hands above my head, a bayonet point
being held at my stomach to enforce the command. Searchers went adroitly through my pockets,
taking everything which they contained. These included a batch of letters which I had received
just before starting from home, and which I had thrust into my pocket to read at leisure during
the journey.

These letters provoked a considerable amount of whispering, head-shaking, wise smiles, and
significant noddings. No one could read a word of English--but that was immaterial. In the
wisdom of their conceit these inquisitors considered the communications to be fully incriminating,
and the frequent recurrence of the word "Russia" in the letters convinced them that my guilt
was now fully and truly established beyond a shadow of a doubt. The various articles were carefully
wrapped up and tied with blue ribbon. Knowing the significance of red-tape at home, I concluded
that this was the Prussian analogue of our official preference. Afterwards, however, I was
told that "blue" ribbon was employed for a specific purpose--the sealing of articles and goods
belonging to one arrested on the charge of espionage. How far this is true I do not know, but
I did observe that in every instance blue ribbon was employed to secure the parcels belonging
to spies. 

From Moeggelingen to Aalen they were obliged to use three horses, and yet it took fully six
hours, so that they were obliged to spend the night there. Next morning they set off early, and
reached the village of Hofen by mid-day without accidents.

Here for a time the travelling ceased, for a hundred paces beyond the village the carriage fell
into a puddle, and they were all terribly soiled; the maid's right shoulder was dislocated,
and the manservant's hand injured. First they dropped it as if fearing it might explode. Then
finding that the fall brought about no ill-effects they approached it warily, picked it up
gingerly, and held it to their ears. It did not tick. Then they shook it, banged it on the
desk, studied it closely with a wise, old-owlish look, and at last, shaking their heads quizzically,
consigned it to wrapping paper and sealed it with the blue ribbon.

Despite my serious predicament I could not refrain from indulging in an outburst of laughter
which only served to annoy them still further. The mystery was not a new type of infernal machine
as they imagined but merely a home-made actinometer! It was contrived from an old cheap watch-case,
while the strange contents were merely strips of paper which had been soaked in a solution
of potassium bichromate!

These preliminaries completed, my two companions and I were paraded before another pompous
official who, like the majority of his ilk, was smothered with decorations. Drawing himself
to his full height he fired a tirade at us for several minutes without taking the slightest
pause for breath. What it was all about I do not know. He spoke so rapidly, and so in the style
of a gramophone, that I came to the conclusion he was in the habit of holding forth in this
strain at intervals of every few minutes. But his manner was so menacing as to lead me to apprehend
that no feelings of affection or hospitality were to be extended towards us.

His speech completed, he shouted an order. Soldiers hurried in, and at the word of command
they commenced to load their rifles. I was quite at a loss to understand this action, but my
heart thumped and a queer, indescribable feeling came over me. I felt sick and faint, especially
when I saw the men, upon completing loading, form up in two lines. Like a flash it dawned upon
me that according to German military form I had been found guilty of the charge levelled against
me, and that the harangue of the pompous individual was no more or less than the promulgation
of my death sentence! For what else could these men have loaded their rifles so ostentatiously?
And why were there so many soldiers? Their numbers plainly indicated the firing party.

My eyes grew dim with tears in spite of myself. Visions of my wife and family at home, waiting
and momentarily expecting "Daddy," who had notified them of his return, flitted through my
brain. A lump rose in my throat and for the first time I was within an ace of breaking-down.
But smothering my thoughts, I pulled myself together. Assuming a bravado I was far from feeling,
I demanded to see the Commandant. To my surprise the request was granted. This functionary
was seated at his desk in a corner of the room, and I was escorted to him. Seeing me he curtly
demanded what I wanted.

"Can I write to my wife?"

The officer who accompanied me explained the situation, and although I did not understand what
transpired I caught the words "Englische Spion!" The Commandant glared at me.

"Where is she?" he roared.

"In England!"

"England!" and the word, full of venom and hate, burst out like the cork from a pop-gun. "Nein!
Certainly not! It is impossible! Get out!"

Assisted by a vigorous prod I was brought alongside my two companions.

The soldiers lined up to march. My head was swimming, but all thoughts of my own plight were
dispelled by an incident which was as unexpected as it was sudden. At the command "March" one
of the two Indian students, positive that he was now going to his doom, staggered. I caught
him as he fell. He dropped limply to the ground, half-dead with fright, and with his face a
sickly green.

"Are we going to be shot? Are we going to be shot?" he wailed agonisedly.

He clutched the sleeve of a soldier, who, looking down and evidently understanding English,
motioned negatively. Then he added as an afterthought, "Not now!"

While his negative head-shake revived my drooping spirits, his words afterwards sent them to
zero once more. I hardly knew whether to feel relieved or otherwise. It would have been far
better had the soldier curbed his tongue, because his final words kept us on the rack of suspense.

We were hustled out of the room. As we passed out I glanced at the clock. It was just nine
o'clock--Tuesday morning, August 4. I shall never forget the day nor the hour. Like sheep we
were driven and rushed downstairs, the guards assisting our faltering steps with sundry rifle
prods and knocks. We tramped corridors, which seemed to be interminable, and at last came to
a ponderous iron gate. Here we were halted, and the military guard handed us over to the gaolers.
We passed through the gates, which closed with a soul-smashing, reverberating bang.

Over the top of this gate I had noticed one of those mottoes to which the German is so partial.
I do not recall the actual words, but I was told that it was something to do with crime and
punishment. It would have been far more appropriate had it been inscribed "Main entrance to
Hell. No pass-out checks!" According to many accounts which reached my ears during the succeeding
few days, many entered those gates, but few passed out alive. I can substantiate this from
my own observations, which are duly narrated, while my experience was sufficient to vouch for
its similarity to Hades.

This gate gave approach to a long corridor, flanked on either side by cells. This corridor
is facetiously nick-named by the prisoners as "Avenue of the Damned," because it is in these
cells that the tenants await their doom. I was separated from my two companions, who were already
being treated more leniently than myself, the case against them being obviously very thin,
and was brought to a stop before cell "No. 11."

The massive door swung open, and accompanied by four soldiers I entered. The door closed, there
was a grating in the lock, and we were alone. Even now I could not keep back a smile. Although
I had been thrust into the cell, together with four armed soldiers, and the door had been bolted
and barred, I turned at the sound of a slight click. The head gaoler, who had ushered us in
and had locked the door upon us, according to the regulations of the prison, had opened the
peep-hole to satisfy himself that I was safely inside!

CHAPTER III

HOW GERMANY DRIVES HER PRISONERS MAD

