One more incident. A young man came to one of the members of this church sometime since, saying,
“I came to the city two years ago. I was a member of a church at home; but here, no man seemed
to care for my soul. I have neglected my duty, have sought for no church home; but I was attracted
to your rooms. I went to the association prayer meeting. My heart was stirred, and I became
ashamed of my neglect and inconsistency; and now I want to know when your next communion season
is, that I may give my letter to your pastor.”

I could give you others, but these speak volumes for the value of this policy; and, from the
bottom of my heart this morning, I say God bless the Young Men’s Christian Association, and
pledge them my poor efforts and influence, and prayers to help forward the work so nobly begun.

I know not where to stop. My heart is so full that it seems as if I could spend the day on
this theme. But I must stop, and, in conclusion I say, first to the church, accept frankly
the responsibility which God throws on you in the persons of these young men. You are the appointed
agency, the proper agency, and the only agency to save and restrain and protect them. You cannot
shirk it, especially as city churches. Into these centres of trade and education God pours
the young men, and he asks you and me this morning if we are ready for them; if, while business
and education are multiplying their facilities, the gospel of Christ, represented by the churches,
is multiplying its facilities to make the city the best place for the education of young men
in virtue. He asks these churches if there is nothing significant, no message to her in the
concentration of the mass of our young men and the mass of Christian culture, organized power,
and wealth, at one point? Have these things no relation to each other? Yes, brethren, they
have. There is no evading it. The finger of Providence points unswervingly to these city churches
as the great sources of Christian influence upon young men. Let us not fail to hear these voices.
The ten thousand appliances of vice, confronting the church with brazen defiance, or with devilish
ingenuity and secresy sapping the foundations of manly honor and integrity, call to us, deal
gently with the young man. Fathers and mothers, the yearnings of whose hearts you read full
easily in your love for your own sons, whose happiness, whose very lives are bound up in the
honor and prosperity of these sons and brothers, call to us from their distant homes in quiet
villages, and on the open farm lands, call to us with agonizing earnestness—deal gently for
our sakes with the young man. Our community, our country, calls to us. Oh, when I look upon
society and see what characters ride rampant there, when I look at government and see the awful
corruption festering there, when I see how men in power, from the chief magistrate of the nation
down to the humblest postmaster, will sell their souls for party, and betray their country
to its enemies through lust of power, or something else, God knows what; when I see drunkenness
holding high carnival in the nation’s capitol, reeling in the seat of the President, and retailing
its maudlin declamation before a sickened country from Washington to Chicago, I can only turn
to God and the future. Our only hope is in the work of the Christian church through all its
agencies, social, ecclesiastical and educational, moulding out of the glorious material so
abundantly at its disposal, a band of men who shall convert the seats of power into seats of
righteousness, and make government and purity synonymous terms. The young men themselves appeal
to us. This mass of intelligence, clear wit, energy, tact, education; these noble brows on
which God has set the seal of power; these frank, manly, generous natures, these enthusiastic
impulses, all speak to us, saying, deal gently with us, and teach us by the power of Christian
love how to use our power; they speak to us, and warn us against letting so much power and
energy and culture be turned against us, or left to hang as a drag on our wheels. And Christ
speaks to the church, Christ who loves these young men, Christ who died for these young men;
Christ who from his seat of glory at the Father’s right hand, yearns over these young men,
Christ is calling to his church to-day, to you, to me, to all the pastors and congregations
of this city, “take care of them, take care of them, deal gently for MY sake with the young men.”

Christian young men, you have heard the call, and in some sort are obeying it. In proportion
as you have not feared to use the range of gospel agencies, in proportion as your love has
been kindled for the souls of these youths, and your hands and tongues have been devoted to
this end, God has blessed you. Go on as you have begun. Go on, not defiantly, but firmly, boldly,
prudently. Dare to be singular, if it will compass your end. Take the word of God as your highest
authority. Use no means that is not sanctioned by it. Use none of doubtful expediency, but
enlarge the range of your agencies. Wrest from the devil attractions which belong to you rather
than to him. Leaven them. Separate them from the debasing associations with which sin has identified
them, and in the name of Christ your Master, set up your banners, rally your forces and join
the churches in their work of salvation.

And you, unconverted young men, one word to you. For your own souls’ sake, for the sake of
your best interests, for the sake of the parents who love and hope in you, for the sake of
your country, for Christ’s sake, deal gently with yourselves. By a mistake this took in the Ponca
reservation in Nebraska, and the Poncas were not told. The way they found out, was this: The Sioux
began to come in and claim the land.

"That is not right," said the Poncas. "You do not belong here. All this country is ours. Go
back. We do not want you."

So there was fighting, every little while, and the Poncas lost many
warriors.

This continued for nine years, until, by the raids of the Sioux,
one fourth of the Poncas had been killed or captured.

Still they had not been told by the United States that these lands
were theirs no longer; but, suddenly, in 1877, they were told that
they must get out.

At this time they had three villages, on the lower
Niobrara River, and eight bands, each under a chief. Our people are hearing, reading, and being
influenced by discussions of the subject in various quarters. Obviously, we must not let our
congregations form their conclusions on so important a matter, independently of their chosen
spiritual guides. The word of each pastor will carry with it, in most cases, a weight which
can attach to no other’s word. Let us see to it that we separate ourselves, as much as possible,
from prejudice in our examination of this question. Let us face the facts fairly, and inquire
what provision is furnished by the gospel to meet them. We have nothing to do with any other
consideration. Whether the gospel principles and methods applicable to this case appear to
us safe or unsafe, we have no right to advocate any other. We have no right to be silent.

What are the facts?

1. The youth, as a class, are vitally important to the church and to the state. Our work as
Christian teachers reaches beyond our own generation. We owe to the future the proper training
of the men and women who are to mould its destinies. The present youth are the future leaders
of church and state. How they shall lead them, depends very much upon us. These truths are
self-evident.

2. They are exposed to peculiar dangers calling for special effort on their behalf.

Special efforts are being made to ruin them. The self-interest of vice is interested in this
work; for to youth its appliances look chiefly for support. As one has happily expressed it,
“Age has few passions to which profligacy can appeal; and the proselytism of decrepitude and
years are enlistments of little value.” The withdrawal of young men from the rolls of the intemperate
and licentious, would leave two-thirds of the drinking saloons and brothels bankrupt. The passions
to which these appliances appeal are such as are most active and dangerous in youth. They offer
the freedom and license which youth loves. They throw off the shackles which youth hates. Our
cities and villages swarm with traps set expressly for them. Thousands are freely expended
to invest the bar room and the gambling hall with the cozy attractions of the parlor. The harlot’s
palace opens wide its doors. The public ball room displays its fascinations. Dissipation draws
round itself the attractions of wealth and taste and fashion, and in its splendid club rooms
secures for itself the pleasures which expediency forbids it to seek more publicly. Vice literally
flaunts its banners in the face of the public. But a few days since I saw from my window a
banner carried through the streets, blazoned with the name and attractions of one of the vilest
fashionable groggeries in the city, and preceded by the music of a drum and fife. The snug
retreat, known only to the initiated few, where licentiousness and drunkenness are secluded,
and thousands lost and won, was never more popular than now. Practiced decoys lie in wait for
the daughters of our families, and the whirl of general society in which so many of them, at
a tender age, are madly revolving night after night, is no poor preparation for the fatal success
of these wiles. Young girls, who come from quiet country homes to seek employment, cast adrift
on these surging tides of life without a friend or an adviser, readily fall victims to the
wiles of young seducers whose social position ensures their security. In a certain city, I
was informed not long since, of one keeper of a fashionable brothel who had removed her trade,
because it was too largely usurped by victims of this class to render it any longer profitable.
Young men, too, are coming to the cities in crowds, to engage in business or study. They must
have society and recreation; and the votaries of vice are sparing neither pains nor expense
to give them abundance of both, fraught with ruin to soul and body.

Without going outside of our special sphere as pastors, viewing this subject solely with reference
to the youth of our congregations, as, in common with others subjected to these and other temptations,
what ought to be our influence in arresting and counteracting these evils?

It ought to be second to none but parental influence. If the name pastor mean anything, our
position as the chosen religious teachers of congregations ought to give us free access to
every household in our flocks, and the strongest influence over the youth whose moral training
we directly or indirectly shape. We ought to be not only respected and reverenced, but so loved
as to be the familiar advisers and confidants of the youth of our charges. Our word ought,
next to the parents’, to have weight in turning them from improper courses and associations,
and in keeping them from such. Moreover, our influence ought not to be merely restrictive and
admonitory. We should be sufficiently in sympathy with them, familiar enough with the demands
of their age and with the best means of satisfying them, to be able to offer positive suggestions
respecting their employments, recreations, society, reading, and the like. If we sustain proper
relations to the youth of our charges, they will be as likely to refer such questions to us,
as matters of theology or practical morality.

Now, the question of the amusements of our youth is as good a test question in this matter
as we need ask. What, then, is the influence of the clergy at large in regulating the diversions
of the youth?

I appeal to the experience of the mass of ministers, not with the few special friends and admirers,
which most of them have among the young people of their congregations, but with the mass of
the youth. I appeal to those judicious, farseeing Christians, who are wont to observe carefully
the tendencies of society, if this influence is not a comparative nullity. In a question which,
perhaps, as much as any other, concerns the welfare of our youth, which has the most vital
relations to the attractions of home, which will enter, whether we may think it right or not,
into the considerations which influence the choice or rejection of a religious life; at a point
which the ministers of vice are fortifying most strongly, wresting the best diversions to themselves,
striving to make them peculiarly their own, and to invest them permanently with associations
which shall exclude them from Christian homes; here, I say, the Christian church, the appointed
regulator and instructor in the ethics of amusement, is, to a great extent, at open issue with
her own intelligent youth, and practically powerless to execute her own decrees.

It is well for us as ministers, to look this fact squarely in the face, and to call things
by their right names. How many pastors are in the confidence of their youth with respect to
the amusements of the latter? Is not the fact rather that there is a tacit antagonism recognized
between the youth and the clergy on this subject, an antagonism growing, too, every year less
tacit and more avowed? Can it be denied that a very large proportion of our youth regard their
ministers as the foes to recreation, and would sooner think of consulting them on any subject
than on this? Is it not the fact that while presbyteries and conferences and conventions pass
long and stringent resolutions on the subject of dancing and on the use of cards and billiards,
multitudes of Christian families practice dancing; scores of them may be found playing whist
at their own firesides, and scores more with their billiard rooms fitted up in their own houses?
It will not answer to say that those who practice these things are backslidden in heart and
worldly minded, and that, if they were truly Christ’s children, they would neither practice
nor desire them. This is begging the whole question at issue, and moreover is flatly contradicted
by facts. Many of those who engage in these recreations are among the most devoted, enlightened,
faithful members and even ministers of our churches. Is it not the fact, again, that the pastors
of these individuals would be very much at a loss to administer discipline in such cases? Do
they not know that any attempt at authoritative interference would be regarded as trenching
upon individual rights of conscience, and would send scores of active and faithful members
to other communions? The truth is, and there is no shirking it, that, in the cities especially,
in the largest and most powerful churches, the clergy are practically brought to a stand in
this matter. They do not and cannot control it. A vast mass of enlightened Christian sentiment
is against their attempts to enforce the traditional church doctrines on this subject. Their
people pay little or no heed to the official utterances of church assemblies. Many of them
treat them with ridicule. There is no denying these facts. Hundreds of pastors are painfully
impressed with them. The church’s position in this matter is most humiliating.

What then is the course of the clergy?

Some of them are more than half persuaded that the more liberal view of their people is correct.
They fully sympathize, perhaps, with that view, yet they remain silent. They cannot conscientiously
reprove; they refuse to come boldly forward and define their position for fear of awakening
prejudice, or for fear their views may be misunderstood or misconstrued. In short they think
it is not safe. And yet, all the while, the initiated in the congregation know pretty well
the general drift of their minister’s sentiments; that, though he says little, he winks a tacit
encouragement to many indulgences which far over-step the bounds of ancient orthodoxy. But
is this safe? Is it safe or honorable for the church to be impotent to carry out her own dogmas?
Is it safe for her to be under the charge of inconsistency from the world because her statute
books and the practice of her members are at open variance? Is it safe for the views of an
influential Christian teacher to be known only generally and vaguely, that his church and the
world may draw undue license therefrom? If he is convinced that the church has been mistaken
in this matter, and has in past years committed herself to undue stringency, is it safe to
let the error remain untouched, and going on working its pernicious consequences? If the gospel
teaches a larger liberty, a broader conception of Christian living and Christian enjoyment
than the church has preached, has that minister who conscientiously believes the fact any right
to withhold the truth because he deems it unsafe, and to let a falsehood (as he believes) gain
currency and power, and forfeit moreover the attraction presented to a sinful world by his
more cheering and liberal conception of Christ’s teachings? Not safe! Will not God take care
of his truth? Doubtless men will misconstrue it. Doubtless they will wrest the preaching of
gospel liberty to the confirmation of worldly license. But the greater the danger of this,
the more reason why the truth, the whole truth, should be proclaimed loudly, boldly, distinctly,
frequently. When the water is first let into a reservoir, it is apt to be very muddy; but that
is no reason why the reservoir should remain dry forever. The water will settle by and by,
and the whole people be refreshed. If there is truth in these more liberal views of amusement,
it is in vain for religious newspapers to shirk the discussion of the question. It is in vain
for influential ministers to beg young men’s Christian conventions not to raise it. It is in
vain for the pulpit to preserve a discreet silence. The thing will out. The truth will stay
swathed in no cave in the rock. The things that have been spoken in the ear in closets will
be proclaimed upon the house tops. The Christian public will the sooner attain correct views
on this subject through free discussion. If the thing be not of God, it will sooner come to
nought through this process than through any other. But by their love for souls, and by their
sworn loyalty to God and truth, let the clergy run the sword of the Spirit through and through
this matter, that the world may know the truth and detect the falsehood.

It is confessed by some that they have given the subject no attention. They have accepted the
traditions of the church as they found them, have preached and have tried to enforce them,
or else have settled down upon the assumption that the matter is of minor importance. I simply
ask if this is justifiable in view of the facts; in view of the contradictory position of the
church on this subject; in view of the important part which amusements must play in the education
of youth; in view of their great and patent abuses; in view of the point urged in these discourses
that many of the popular diversions of the day may be wrested from the devil’s hands and turned
to good purpose in keeping the young from evil influences and associations?

Some positively refuse to consider the question under any new aspect. It is settled, once and
for all. The books are balanced, shut and sealed. The wisdom of a past generation exhausted
the question. Its dictum is to be received as gospel. Little needs to be said here. Such declarations
demand the utmost stretch of Christian charity. They betray an ignorance which, in a popular
teacher, is unpardonable, and a blind acquiescence in the conclusions of the past which is
pitiable.

The truth, moreover, is not promoted, in any direction, by abusing those of more liberal views
on this question. The man who conscientiously believes them wrong, and boldly says so, and
does not simply declaim against them but opposes them by fair argument drawn from scripture,
is to be honored. I would there were more such. But it will not in the least tend to conciliate
favor for the more stringent aspect of the question, for its advocates to cast slurs upon the
sincerity and piety of those who differ from them, to announce them as corrupters of youth,
enemies of the church, underminers of pure religion, and the like. The day for this has gone
by. The best men may differ even on this question, which some think so firmly settled; and
the liberal view of this subject is supported by too many shining names in the Christian ministry,
by too large a mass of Christian devotion and consistency and learning and intelligence, to
entitle such assertions to any notice whatever. When he had started a crop, he was going on with
the bones, and bury them at the Niobrara, where the Poncas of happier years had been buried.

Before
the crop was in, soldiers appeared, and arrested him and all his
party, to take them back to the hot country.

This much alarmed the Omahas. They had heard how the Poncas had been
moved off without warning and without reason. Standing Bear was not
being allowed to stay; he had lost his country forever. The same thing
might happen to the Omahas.

The results of this policy so long and so thoroughly tried, are before us. With all this preaching,
the prevalence and variety of amusements steadily increases. Year after year such utterances
of the pulpit fall with less weight. Year after year the character and standing of those who
openly set them at defiance renders it more and more difficult to back them by discipline.
The clergy are not gaining ground with the youth. Hundreds of the latter, repelled by this
teaching, are tearing themselves away from the churches of their fathers, to unite with folds
where a more liberal gospel is preached. A prominent merchant of the Methodist church, a man
whose name is known in both hemispheres, wrote me, not more than a month ago, “the teachings
of my own church on this subject have had the effect to drive nearly my whole family into the
Protestant Episcopal church.”

It is sometimes said: “Let them go. We are better without such. We do not want members who
will not relinquish these suspected amusements. We do not want half way Christians, conformed
to the world, trying to hold fast to pleasure and secure heaven at the same time.” But such
statements do not fairly represent the case. Again, the whole question is begged. Many of those
who refuse to conform to the churches dicta on these subjects care nothing whatever for the
amusements in question. The matter is entirely one of principle. They leave our churches, not
because conscience is relaxed, but because it is acutely sensitive, and because they would
keep it unsullied. The above method of putting the case assumes that all the conscience is
on one side; that, while it operates strongly to condemn, it cannot possibly operate to approve.
Many of these persons resort to other communions, because they are too honest to compromise
with conscience; because they cannot see these questions in the light in which their own churches
present them; and rather than go to God’s altars with even an implied falsehood upon their
consciences, or embrace the alternative of remaining outside of Christ’s fold, they will sever
life-long ties, entwined with some of their dearest and tenderest recollections, and go alone
with their conscience and their God to altars where no such tests are imposed. And in these
new associations they bear themselves with all Christian fidelity. They bring forth rich fruits
of grace. They walk humbly and consistently with God. They are exemplary fathers and mothers.
They are liberal in their gifts to the cause of Christ, and active in promoting schemes to
advance it. Our churches have been driving away such men and women as these who would have
been their ornaments and bulwarks, because they have sought unduly to constrain Christian conscience
on these subjects.

Worse than this. This course is keeping youth away from all church communions; away from Christ.
Few pastors have not received this answer, when urging young persons to come to the Savior.
“If I become a Christian, I must be very solemn. I must repress my lightness of heart. I must
relinquish all my cherished enjoyments.” Admit that these views are greatly exaggerated, as
doubtless they are, the question forces itself upon us, why do we meet such views so often?
Why are they so generally prevalent among our youth? Why does the immense amount of preaching,
forcible, eloquent preaching, on the comforts and joys of a Christian life produce, seemingly,
so little impression upon them? Why is it that they persist in regarding Christian joy as a
sickly, stunted thing, and religion as the enemy of all light and hilarity and taste and freedom?

Is all this result of native depravity? I cannot believe it. I cannot dissociate a large measure
of this most lamentable result from the old teaching and practice of the church on the subject
of recreation. It is of no use to preach to ardent, active youth, that Christianity is a religion
of joy, unless they see some joy brought out of it besides mere smiles and a class of recreations
which to them as a class are insipid. To them Christian cheerfulness appeals as being less
cheerful than any other kind; as a sort of mild, repressed gayety, from which their quick sensibilities
and stirring blood revolts. They feel that in the church they must be cheerful only in the
way the church directs. Those ministers, they reason, can be very cheerful, and even laugh
uproariously over a discussion on decrees; but what do I care for decrees? Those elderly Christians
can be cheerful in a quiet conversation on politics or on the church. But if I want to be cheerful
in a merry dance in proper society and at proper hours, if I want to go to my friend’s billiard
table and play a quiet game, if I want to make merry over a few hits of backgammon, or give
my energy full vent in rolling ten-pins for an hour, I am a heathen and a publican and unfit
for the society of Christians.

As already observed, these views are doubtless greatly exaggerated by the young. Yet does not
the state of the case warrant us in asking carefully and prayerfully if there is no connection
between the stringent dogmas of the church on the subject of recreation, and the general suspicion
of religion which characterizes the mass of unconverted youth?

