And you meekly nod and say: "Yes, sir, boss." Do you have to do that? Oh, no, you could drop
off the team if you didn't like the conditions, but you don't want to drop off and you comply
with the conditions. You surprise yourself by your self-control. You are in on that game, and
you're in to win. It is the event of the season. It will be the thrill of a lifetime to win.
So you are temperate because you want the glory of winning--glory for your team; glory for
your school.

Fellows, thus your body becomes the temple of a living hope. And it is all right. Bless your
hearts, there are few things finer than that self-mastery which enables a boy to deny his natural
appetite for the sake of an ideal--even though it be a sporting ideal.

And I think God designed it so. He is continually teaching us the deeper and richer truths
by leading us up to them through our experiences with things we can touch and taste and see
and hear.

To-day He is pointing you and me, not to the temporary honour of an athletic victory, but to
the eternal honour of gaining the mastery over our appetites for the sake of keeping our bodies,
minds, and hearts for His own indwelling. And He, Himself, is our Coach, doing something which
no other coach can--remaining constantly beside us, within us, establishing that wonderful
endurance--that indescribable something within us which strives and strives and conquers!

Fellows, talk about thrills! there is nothing like the thrill that comes of being used--effectively
used--by Him. The thrills of our athletic victories die away with the shouting, but the deep
satisfaction of "keeping fit" for God's service grows finer and finer as the days go by.

Oh, say, fellows, this is the thrill of Real Life!

     Read 1 Corinthians 6:13-20.

VIII

QUESTIONING

Say, fellows, make a note of this: If you question Jesus in the effort to trip Him, you throw
yourself down; but if you question Jesus in order to know and do His will, you may confidently
stand upon your feet and defy anything that threatens your peace, your happiness, or your success.

"How can a fellow question Jesus in these days, like the Pharisees?" did I hear you ask? This
way: You can question God's Word, its truth, its justice, its wisdom in your particular case.
Millions are to-day questioning in that way; millions who do not want to change their ways,
millions who would like to overthrow God's laws, because they want to go on in their wickedness
and our Lord's teachings are a continual reproach to them. But they are having no better success
in it than the Scribes and Pharisees had in Jesus' day.

    "Last eve I paused beside a blacksmith's door,
      And heard the anvil ring the vesper chimes;
    Then, looking in, I saw upon the floor
      Old hammers worn with beating years of time.

    "'How many anvils have you had,' said I,
      'To wear and batter all these hammers so?'
    'Just one,' said he, and then with twinkling eye,
      'The anvil wears the hammers out, you know.'

    "'And so,' I thought, 'the Anvil of God's Word
      For ages skeptic blows have beat upon,
    Yet, though the noise of falling blows was heard,
      The Anvil is unharmed, the hammers gone.'"

Now, fellows, those Scribes and Pharisees ought to have known better than to try to tangle
Jesus in His talk. Already they had been astonished by the wise words He said, by the unmistakable
"authority" shown in His manner and teachings, by the power of His mere word over diseases
and devils. These men were the devil's own servants. There are many such to-day, and they never
seem to realize until too late that their master will allow them to walk right into a hopeless
fix--caught in their own trap.

Let's run our eye down the closing verse of this chapter of Matthew, as it tells better than
any other how completely squelched were these critics of Jesus: "And no one was able to answer
him a word, neither durst any man from that time forth ask him any more questions."

But there is a kind of questioning which we do want to practise. One of the wisest and finest
things a fellow can do is to make it a rule to ask Jesus some questions every day in His Word.
Make a place in your day's schedule--make it in the morning, first thing if possible, or very
soon after you are up. Open your Bible with a question, and let that question be: "Lord Jesus,
what would you like to tell me to-day out of these verses of Scripture which I am about to
read? What thing in my life would you warn me against, or what thing should I do which I am
not doing? Or, is there a better way I should try?

"Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth."

Fellows, start a day like that--honestly--and you cannot fail!

     Read Matthew 22:15-46.

IX

LOYALTY

Say, fellows, what is the most loyal thing you ever did? I should like to know. Was it when
you waded into a big bully who was licking your little brother, and took the drubbing yourself?
Or was it when some fellows accused you of being tied to your mother's apron strings, and you
flashed back at them: "Yes, and she is the finest mother a boy ever had!" Or was it when you
sat up all night in a coach on a railroad trip to root for your team next day on the enemy's field?

I heard of a British boy in Flanders who was brought back of the lines for surgical treatment,
and when they opened his shirt they found tattooed on his breast the words: For My King! I
read of a French lad whose arm had to be amputated at the shoulder, having been shattered by
a German shell. When he regained consciousness, the surgeon, moved with deep sympathy, said,
"Oh, my poor boy, I am so sorry you lost your arm!" The boy's eyes snapped as he answered:
"Lost! No, don't say that; I gave it to France!" 

Mentions only known instance of mound with Delaware Village.] mentions some stone graves of the type
under consideration as found on the Mahoning River, in Pennsylvania. An important item in this
connection is that these graves were in a mound.

Fellows, I want to offer you King Jesus as the One upon whom you can spend your loyalty to
the limit. There is none like Him. He is the chief among ten thousand. When He gives you a
task He gives you at the same time the power to do it. When He sends you to men, He opens the
hearts of those to whom you are sent. You can undertake anything for King Jesus without fear,
no matter how difficult or how impossible the task may seem.

Why, fellows, think of those two disciples going after that colt for Jesus their King to ride
upon! He sent them for it. The beast belonged to some one else, yet they were to untie it and
bring it. If the owner objected, all they were to say was: "The Lord hath need of him." That
would settle it. They brought it as directed. That was faith, and that was loyalty.

To-day King Jesus wants messengers--not to send out for asses, but into the haunts of sin for
lost men and women; and into the social, commercial, and industrial world to present His claims.
Some, hearing the call, are answering, "But how do I know I will succeed in that sort of business?
Will I be contented in such work? Will it pay? Will it keep me in a comfortable living? Will
men come when I tell them?" Listen, fellows, King Jesus says: "All power is given unto me--Go!--and
lo, I am with you alway!" That is sufficient, it is the King's own word for it; and here is
the place where you can exercise your priceless loyalty to the limit, and never know a moment's
regret. The King Himself goes with you.

The loyal servants of King Jesus never have to root for a losing game; victory is assured from
the beginning.

     Read Mark 11:1-11.

X

A GOOD SPORT

Say, fellows, I overheard a remark the other day as I passed a bunch of boys down on the corner.
One of the boys was saying, "Oh, he's a good sport, all right," and I wondered just what that
boy thought it took to make a good sport. About that time one of the boys whom I knew pulled
out of the crowd and coming my way overtook me, so I asked him who was the "good sport" the
fellows were talking about.

"Why," he said, "it was Jim Love; when he was in the two-mile cross-country foot race the other
day, with a good chance of getting ahead of Tom Locke, who won it, Jim stopped long enough
to help a guy across a footlog with a sack of potatoes or something--and even then came in
just a few yards behind Tom. He would have won, but for that stop; but he said the old man
looked as if he was about to fall off the footlog. Tom saw it, too, but he waded the creek
and got a better lead on Jim."

It did me good to think of those fellows classing Jim up as "a good sport," after I knew what
had happened. They had the right idea. I believe our Lord would have called Jim a good sport,
too, if He had been telling the boys of to-day about it, because the Christ spirit in a fellow
is what makes him a "good sport" in the highest sense. Once when a proud Pharisee was trying
to trap our Lord with a "catch question," Jesus answered him with a story very much like that
which made the boys call Jim Love a good sport.

The Pharisee asked Jesus, "Who is my neighbour?" and Jesus told him about the Good Samaritan.
A man was travelling from Jerusalem down the rough mountain road to Jericho, and was attacked
by bandits, beaten, robbed, and left lying beside the road half dead. A priest came along,
but he was in a hurry; he had important religious duties awaiting him, and besides, that fellow
looked as if he was in bad and it would take a lot of time and trouble to "undertake" him,
so Mr. Priest just hummed a little tune to himself, looked at the sky and passed on.

Then came a Levite. He got down off his donkey and stepped over and looked at the poor fellow.
Yes, he was breathing, but so near dead he probably would not last long, so why worry? So passed
on the Levite. But next came along a man whom the priest and the Levite despised because he
was a Samaritan. They regarded him as a very poor sort of a citizen.

But the Samaritan had a heart in him and he had a way of saying to himself when he saw anybody
in distress: "Suppose I was in that fellow's fix, what would I like to have done for me?" That the
latter were the work of the people who made the pottery Mr. Sellers demonstrated by finding
that many of the graves were lined at the bottom with fragments of these large clay "salt pans."
[Footnote: Popular Science Monthly, vol.

That is the way the heart of a good sport talks back to a fellow, and a good sport listens
when his heart speaks, and a good sport acts quickly. So the Samaritan got down off his donkey
and ran to the man, felt his pulse, spoke to him, loosened his shirt and looked into that ugly
wound all bleeding. Then back to his travelling sack and out with the oil and wine.

Pouring in the soothing and healing stuff, he doubtless said: "There now, old fellow, you're
feeling better already; just keep steady a bit, and we'll get you out of this; a little water?
yes, hold on a minute--" and down to the trickling stream he runs and brings a cool drink in
his little leather cup.

Ah, it was fine to see that beaten man revive! He opened his eyes wide and looked the gratitude
he was not yet able to speak. Soon the Samaritan got the whole story of the attack, listening
with sympathetic indignation as the wounded man told how it happened, how he was taken by surprise
by those cowardly ruffians, stripped, robbed, and beaten into insensibility. Directly he was
trying to raise up on his elbow, and the Samaritan said:

"Now you just put your arm around my neck and hold steady while I lift. That's it, get your
weight on your right foot, lean forward, and I'll get you atop this beast. Ah! that's the stuff,
you're getting stronger every minute--now steady just a moment, let me pick up that oil bottle--all
right--Get up! Bess--steady, girl, keep your hoofs in the path, and we'll make it fine. There,
that's the movement.

"The inn is only a mile down the road now, friend, and there is food and a good bed awaiting
you--oh, well, that's all right about your money being taken, I'll take care of that. The innkeeper
and I are good friends, and likely with the good treatment you'll get you will be on your way
in a couple of days--"

And so they go, the donkey picking her way carefully over the rougher places under the restraining
voice of her master, while the wounded man leans heavily upon his benefactor.

Then, you know the rest, fellows. That despised Samaritan saw the thing clean through. He did
not leave "his neighbour" until he had spent a night with him at the inn and had an understanding
next morning with the innkeeper as to his safekeeping until able to resume the journey.

And what did our Lord teach in that graphic story? Why, simply this: Anybody whom you can help
is your neighbour. If there is a poor man at my door needing something I can give, he is my
neighbour. Or, if there is a rich Chinaman six thousand miles across the seas, needing the
spiritual help I can send him through my prayers, my gifts, or my personal attention--he is
my neighbour. Distance, short or long, is not the measure of neighbourhood; but need and my
ability to help are the tests which determine how near by is my brother man.

The Boy Scouts have a fine motto: "Do a Good Turn Daily." There is just one better--"Do a Good
Turn Whenever You Can," and that is loving your neighbour.

     Read Luke 10:25-37.

XI

FEASTING

Say, fellows, a man raised a glass of water to his mouth to take a drink; some one passing
struck his elbow, and--! Now an interesting thing has happened: each one of you fellows got
a picture, complete in all details, to a climax. Yet there was no real picture; it was all
in your imagination, spurred by twenty-one simple words. And it was a moving picture, too,
and it went away past the word-spurs, because you painted the balance of it yourselves like
a flash. You saw the glass fall and smash on the floor, and you saw the water spatter the man's
feet and trousers--then some of you saw him jump back and look up quick and kind of mad like
at the person passing, and maybe say something rough.

Well, that's a wonderful machine you've got there, fellows; anything that can make a moving
picture out of a thin line of material like that--a really for-the-moment interesting picture,
with all the finishing touches--has a most valuable and useful outfit. Now Jesus knew His hearers
had outfits of that wonderful kind, so in speaking to them He helped them draw pictures which
would enable them to see some very interesting and startling things--things which they needed
to know worse than a dying man needs a doctor.

Most of the pictures which He drew in this way were to show what the kingdom of heaven is like.
Men in those days, just as nowadays, were walking around bumping right up against the kingdom
of heaven without knowing it. So Jesus drew pictures to help them see this wonderful kingdom,
in order that they might not only become glad citizens of it but also to escape an awful fate.

The picture I want to present is of a great and rich king who was also both good and generous,
making a marriage feast for his son and inviting a large number of guests.

Now, fellows, use your fine imagination again. You saw the king's surprise when the first servants
reported; you saw him knit his brows (like this) and stand silently thinking a moment before
deciding to send a second word; but can you imagine his astonishment a little later, when two
of that second squad came running in, all breathless, and told him that though they fully explained
the magnificence of the wedding supper, some turned upon their heels with a flimsy excuse,
others rudely laughed outright in the messengers' faces, and--oh, the horror of it!--still
others actually stoned and beat some of the messengers to death!--and their bodies were even
at that moment lying in the street, being licked by dogs.

I say, can you see the king now? I think you can, for you have heard what he did. He describes
the mound as 35 feet in diameter and 5 feet high, having on one side a projection 35 feet long
of the same height as the mound. Near by a cache was discovered containing twenty one iron
implements, such as axes, hatchets, tomahawks, hoes, and wedges.

Yes, fellows, I know what you are saying. You are saying, "Well, I don't see how anybody could
be as big a fool as that!" And yet, do you know that people are just as foolish to-day? Jesus
told that parable to help us, too. The kingdom of heaven is just as close to you and to me;
the greatest King of all--that's Jesus--is inviting boys and men to come in to the feast of
usefulness and happiness and joy of an out-and-out Christian life, a feast which He has Himself
prepared, and some are turning their backs upon His call, unwilling to take the King's own
word for it that they will have the time of their lives, which will grow sweeter and finer
and better as the days go by, and never, never end!

I tell you, fellows, there's nobody who can make a feast like Jesus; things taste even a lot
better than they look on the card, for He always gives more than He promises. Don't you make
the mistake of turning down His invitation. It would be a tragedy.

     Read Matthew 22:1-10.

XII

STEWARDSHIP

Say, fellows, how much is a boy worth in money? The United States Labour Bureau in 1914 estimated
the average cost of rearing a boy to the age of sixteen was then $1,325. It must average at
least $1,500 now. Well, fellows, that is what you cost; are you worth it? I am talking of actual,
not sentimental, values. Father and mother wouldn't take a million dollars for any one of you,
I suppose, but that does not mean you are worth it. An investment of $1,500 ordinarily is expected
to yield at least six per cent. a year, which is $90.

I know a fourteen-year-old boy who is earning $7 a week. He gives it all to his widowed mother
on Saturday night. She gives him back a dollar of it. He first takes out ten cents for his
church pledge and five cents for Sunday-school. Then he puts fifty cents in his savings bank.
He has about $25 in the bank. The remainder, thirty-five cents, he spends as his fancy dictates.
He is a steady boy and it is reasonable to count upon his putting in eleven months a year at
his work, allowing one month for vacation. His gross financial value to his mother for the
year, therefore, is not less than $280. It costs her about $12.50 a month to provide his food
and clothing. That takes off $150, so his net financial value a year is $130, which is six
per cent. on $2,166. Thus you see that fourteen-year-old boy is a paying investment on considerably
more than the average cost of a sixteen-year-old boy, and I do not wonder that that fellow's
mother would not take a million for him, for the money part of his value is the least of all.

But this is not by any means an accurate way to arrive at a boy's real value. The more fortunate
boy will be going to school nine months of the year. He is preparing for a later very much
higher value than the boy who is denied an education, and while he may not be earning money
now, he is earning a certain knowledge, skill, and development which will give him equipment
of high value. At any rate, sooner or later, fellows, you find yourself with a capacity for
earning and accumulating money. And, remember, in your relation to your money, that after all
it is not yours, but God's--no matter how it comes into your hands.

In Luke 16 is the account of Dives, whom God permitted to be rich, but who made the fatal mistake
of using his wealth for the sole purpose of gratifying himself. He built a luxurious home,
he bought fine clothes and feasted every day on costly food. There were suffering and want
all about him, but he turned his face away from the needy. One poor fellow named Lazarus, too
weak to walk and all covered with sores, was laid at this rich man's gate where he was bound
to see him day after day.

The dogs came and licked the poor man's sores, but Dives passed him by. Lazarus got a servant
to ask for the scraps taken from the rich man's table, but he needed other help. God gave Dives
money and gave him an opportunity to serve his fellow-man with it, but Dives failed to catch
the idea, somehow. He foolishly spent his money upon himself, and one night Dives lay down
to sleep on a full stomach and woke up in torment.

Fellows, money was his undoing. Money can be a curse, or it can be a blessing. All depends
upon whether or not you recognize God's ownership, acknowledge it, and act upon it. Some of
the saddest lives ever lived are those built around a wrong conception of their relation to
money. Some of the happiest and most successful lives are those built upon the principle that
money is a God-given trust to be used for Him.

Fellows, what are you going to be worth--to God, and to your fellow-man?

     Read Luke 16:19-31.

XIII

TALENTS

Say, fellows, one morning in spring a boy came to me and said: "Dad, let's go fishing; I saw
the bass jumping in the lake just now, and that means they are ready to bite." 

Stone graves have been found in great numbers at various points along the Ohio from Portsmouth to Ripley,
a region known to have been occupied at various times by the Shawnees.

Similar

graves have been discovered in Ashland County. I made a dandy
throw, first try, and as the bait began bobbing in and out among the flags I could just see
myself hanging a beauty. I was watching the line so hard that I forgot the boy for two or three
minutes; then, turning, I saw him standing there looking very sad.

"What's the matter," I said, "why don't you unwrap your line and fish?"

He whimpered: "I want to fish for bass, with a big line, like yours."

"Why," I said, "you couldn't handle a big rod and line like this; and if you could, you would
get it tangled up in those flags out there; now you just unwrap your little line, put a little
worm on your little hook and drop it over there by that stump, and you will catch a little perch."

Well, he didn't want to do it, but because I ordered him to do it he cast in his hook. In the
meantime, I was watching my minnow again; it was playing beautifully, but getting no strike.
I was still watching it intently, when all of a sudden I heard a great splashing beside me,
and looking around--there was a sight! That boy's little pole was nearly bent double, and at
the end of his line threshing and churning the water at a terrific rate was a big fish! The
boy was having the time of his life; oh, he played him, he tightened him and slacked him, but
all the time bringing him nearer to the bank.

In about a half minute (it seemed much longer) there was a pound-and-a-half bass flapping out
there on the grass. In the meantime, the big hook continued to do nothing--and it never did,
that afternoon. We went home with the one bass, and that night the family sat around the supper
table and greatly enjoyed the fish caught on the little hook.

God will honour the fellow that does the best he can with what he has in his hand. And perhaps
it will be a far greater honour than you ever dreamed of.

When our Lord told the parable He did not mean to make small of the fellow who has only small
ability. He condemned the fellow who refused to use what ability he had because it was small
and because he did not have as much as somebody else to work with. Let's suppose the last part
of that parable had read this way:

"Then he which had received the One Talent came and said, Lord, you only gave me one talent,
and when I saw you giving that other fellow five and still another two, I was all cut up about
it. I did not see why you should give them more to work with than you gave me. I boiled inside.
I said to myself, Well, if that is the way he treats me, I will simply take his talent and
bury it until he comes back; then I will dig it up and hand it back to him just as he handed
it to me.

"But then I thought again, and I remembered that it was your property you were distributing,
and you had a perfect right to do it as you chose. I remembered that you are both a wise and
a kind master; you have never given me a reason to question your love for me and your interest
in me; and you know me and my capacity for handling your property far better than I know myself.
So I decided to take that One Talent and work with it and do the very best I could with it.
And, Lord, I did; and here, see--I have gained another one to go with it; here are two talents."

Bless your life, fellows, do you know what his lord would have said to that man? He would have
said to him exactly what he said to the other two men.

A poor boy in New York got himself a job at a little lunch stand. He found he had a little
talent for making the lunches attractive and people would buy them. He stuck at it, saved his
earnings, and after a while bought out the lunch stand. He enlarged the variety of his lunches
and added some other goods. And, to make a long story short, he is now acknowledged to be the
greatest hotel man in the world.

The fellow who uses the talent he has, be it one, two, or five, and takes Jesus for his partner,
is bound to be a success.

     Read Matthew 25:14-30.

XIV

FIGHTING

Say, fellows! of all the boys in the Old Testament, David is my choice. There was something
about that chap that was "real class."

If David were to happen in your bunch, doubtless when you got to knowing him every one of you
would want him for a chum. He was the kind of fellow that real boys like: not a braggart and
not a "sissy," but generally when it came to his turn to bat he smashed the ball for a clean
hit. Or if he should happen to strike out, he didn't slam the stick to the ground, but with
a smile stepped back and turned a handspring and lit on his feet rooting for the next man up.
Of course, you know there was not any baseball in those days, but that is about the way David
would have played the game.

Out there minding the sheep, David didn't get moody. It might have been a slow job for others,
but not for him. No, he had a harp and he made music with it. He had a sling, and could hit
a quarter on a telegraph pole with it--if there had been quarters and telegraph poles. But
there were other things to use that sling on, and they gave David a touch of real life.

David knew that lions, bears, and wolves lurked in the forests near the pastures in which his
sheep must graze, and he got ready for them. Notice, fellows, here is one of the secrets of
David's success: he was always ready. His big opportunity came when he arrived at King Saul's
camp on that errand for his father, and he was ready for it.

He was ready, first, because he believed God's power was greater than any army, and that God
would fight for any one who fought for Him. Did you notice in the Bible account how David told
the king that God would handle the matter; and how he also told Goliath out there on the field,
while all men held their breath, that it was Goliath plus sword, spear, and shield, against
David plus God?

