The visitor to Oxford often asks--"Where is the University?" The proper answer is: "The University
is everywhere," for the colleges are all parts of it. But if a distinction must be made, and
some buildings must be shown which are especially "University Buildings," then it is undoubtedly
in the Square, of which this picture shows one side, that they must be found. Immediately on
the right is the Bodleian Library, the domed building in the centre is the Radcliffe Library,
and in the background rises the spire of St. Mary's. Of this last building the tower and spire
go back nearly to the beginnings of Oxford; they date from the time of Edward I; but for a
century, at least, before they were erected, the students of Oxford had met for worship and
for business in the earlier church, which stood on the site of the present St. Mary's.

The Bodleian Library occupies the old Examination Schools, which were built, in the reign of
James I, for the reformed University of Archbishop Laud; within the memory of men who do not
count themselves old, the university examinations were still held in this building. Finally,
the shapely dome between the Bodleian and St. Mary's is the work of James Gibbs, the greatest
English architect of the eighteenth century, to whom Cambridge owes its Senate House, and London
the noble church of St. Martin's in the Fields. The dome was built for a separate library,
the foundation of Dr. John Radcliffe, Queen Anne's physician, the most munificent of Oxford
benefactors; it is still managed by his trustees, a body independent of the University, but
since 1861 they have lent it to the Bodleian Library for a reading- room. It is fitting that
the oldest public library in the modern world, a title the Bodleian can proudly claim, should
have the finest reading-room, where 400 students can have each his separate desk, and where,
if so minded and so physically enduring, they can put in twelve hours' work in a day. No other
great library in Europe allows such privileges.

Round these three University buildings are grouped three colleges: Hertford, the youngest of
Oxford foundations, the re-creation of an old hall by a Victorian financial magnate. Sir Thomas
Baring; All Souls', standing a little beyond, of which the part here shown is the corner of
the great Law Library, founded by Sir William Codrington in the days of good Queen Anne; while
on the other side of the Radcliffe is Brasenose College (for pictures of which see Plates II
and XV). No non-academic building fronts on the Square; the one or two houses facing on the
south-west corner are occupied by college tutors. The academic influence has spread even under
the earth, for between the Bodleian and the Radcliffe there is a great subterranean chamber
of two stories, excavated 1909-1910, which, when full, will contain 1,000,000 books.

It is refreshing to turn from the thought of so much dead industry, as these multitudes of
unread books will represent, to the inspiration of the buildings. They are the very epitome
of Oxford. The classic symmetry of Gibbs' dome looks across at the soaring spire of the mediaeval
University Church, while the Bodleian is one of the best examples of the Jacobean Gothic, which
still held its own in Oxford when the classical style was triumphing elsewhere. Such contrasts
are typical of Oxford. The University had a European reputation in the days when it was one
of the two great centres of mediaeval scholasticism. Roger Bacon, the most famous name in mediaeval
science, no doubt saw the tower of St. Mary's beginning to rise. The University welcomed the
Classical Revival, it survived the storms of the Reformation, it was the great centre of the
building up of Anglican theology under the Laudian rule, it was one of the inspirations of
English science in the seventeenth century, though Dr. Radcliffe's generous benefactions are
a little later, and have hardly begun to yield their full fruit till our own day. Such are
the learned traditions of the Radcliffe Square, while it has also been the centre of the young
lives which, for seven centuries at least, have enjoyed their happiest years in Oxford.

The view from the Radcliffe roof is undoubtedly the best in Oxford. It has been thus described
by the worst of the many poets who have celebrated the University:

    "Spire, tower and steeple, roofs of radiant tile,
     The costly temple and collegiate pile,
     In sumptuous mass of mingled form and hue,
     Await the wonder of thy sateless view."

But Robert Montgomery is more likely to be remembered for Macaulay's merciless but well-deserved
chastisement than for his praises of Oxford. The growing unrest, therefore, in matters ecclesiastical
during the early part of the seventeenth century could not but affect
him.

The various parties and tendencies in the Church of England had never,
since the Reformation, attained to a condition of stable equilibrium.

    But the settlement under Elizabeth
     was strengthened, and the parties bound together
                   for thirty years, by the ever-present fear of Rome.

When that fear was allayed, and the menace that hung over the very existence of the nation
removed by the defeat of the Armada, the differences within the Church broke out afresh, and waxed
fiercer every year. Shakespeare grew to manhood during the halcyon years between the Marian persecutions
and the Marprelate pamphlets--a kind of magic oasis, which gave us our English Renaissance. Milton's
youth breathed a very different air. The Church, as it was, pleased hardly any party. Much of the
old temple had been hastily pulled down; the new government offices
that were to replace it had as yet been but partially built, and commanded
no general approval.

Considered as a social organisation, moreover, the Church throughout large parts of the country
had fallen into a state not unlike decay. Richard Baxter, whose testimony there is no sufficient
reason to reject, tells of its state in Shropshire during the years of his youth, from 1615
onwards:--"We lived in a country that had but little preaching at all: In the Village where
I was born there was four Readers successively in Six years time, ignorant Men, and two of
them immoral in their lives; who were all my School-masters. In the Village where my Father
lived, there was a Reader of about Eighty years of Age that never preached, and had two Churches
about Twenty miles distant: His Eyesight failing him, he said Common-Prayer
without Book; but for the Reading of the Psalms and Chapters he got
a Common Thresher and Day-Labourer one year, and a Taylor another
year: (for the Clerk could not read well): And at last he had a Kinsman
of his own (the excellentest Stage-player in all the Country, and
a good Gamester and good Fellow) that got Orders and supplied one
of his Places.... After him another Neighbour's Son took Orders, when
he had been a while an Attorney's Clerk, and a common Drunkard, and
tipled himself into so great Poverty that he had no other way to live....
These were the School-masters of my Youth ... who read Common Prayer
on Sundays and Holy Days, and taught School and tipled on the Weekdays,
and whipt the Boys when they were drunk, so that we changed them very
oft.

Within a few miles about us were near a dozen more Ministers that were near Eighty years old
apiece, and never preached; poor ignorant Readers, and most of them of Scandalous Lives." Some
few there were, Baxter admits, who preached in the neighbourhood, but any one who went to hear
them "was made the Derision of the Vulgar Rabble under the odious Name of a Puritane."


 [Plate IV. Sheldonian Theatre, etc., Broad Street]

Since then, all kinds of University business have been carried on in the old Printing Press.
The University Registrar and the University Treasurer (his style is "Secretary of the University
Chest") have their offices there; the Proctors exercise discipline from there; the various
University delegacies and committees meet there. And another side of Oxford life, not yet (in
January 1920) fully recognized as belonging to the University, has found a home there; the
top floor has been for twenty years past the centre of women's education in Oxford, a position
elevated indeed, for it is up more than fifty stairs, but commodious and dignified when reached
at last.

Perhaps the Clarendon Building has gained in lightness of effect by being contrasted with the
clumsy mass of the Indian Institute, which forms the background of our picture. The nineteenth
century proudly criticized the taste of the eighteenth; but it may well be doubted if any building
in Oxford of the earlier and much-abused century is more inartistic and inappropriate than
"Jumbo's Joss House," which used to rouse the scorn and anger of the late Professor of History,
Edward A. Freeman.

No Oxford colleges are in this picture, though a small part of Exeter, one of Sir Gilbert Scott's
least happy erections in Oxford, appears on the right, and a little piece of Trinity on the
left; the last-named is the college of Professor Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, better known as
"Q," one of the most delightful of Oxford's minor poets. Are they the Roman Emperors, or the
Greek Philosophers, or neither? It does not matter, for they are unlike anything in heaven
or in earth, and yet they are loved by all true Oxford men for their uncompromising ugliness,
which has been familiar to so many generations.

BALLIOL COLLEGE

    "For the house of Balliol is builded ever
     By all the labours of all her sons,
     And the great deed wrought and the grand endeavour
     Will be hers as long as the Isis runs."
                                             F. S. BOAS

The story is told of the old Greek admirals, after their victory at Salamis over the Persian
king, that, when invited to name the two most deserving commanders, they each put their own
name first, and then one and all put the Athenian Themistocles second. If a vote, on these
principles, were taken in Oxford as to which was the best college, there is little doubt that
Balliol would secure most of the second votes.

It is one of the three oldest colleges, and actually has been in occupation of its present
site longer than any other of our Oxford foundations--for more than six centuries and a half.
Yet its greatness is but a thing of yesterday compared to the antiquity of Oxford, and it is
fitting that a college which has come to the front in the nineteenth century should be mainly
housed in nineteenth century buildings.

Balliol has indeed ceased to be the "most satisfactory pile and range of old lowered and gabled
edifices," which Nathaniel Hawthorne saw in the "fifties" of the last century. The painful
imitation of a French chateau, the work of Sir Alfred Waterhouse, which forms the main part
of our picture, was put up about 1868 (mainly by the munificence of Miss Hannah Brackenbury),
and only the old hall and the library, which lie behind, remain of Pre-Reformation Balliol.

In the background of our picture (Plate V) can be seen the Fisher Building, known to all Balliol
men for the still existing inscription, "Verbum non amplius Fisher," which tradition says was
put up at the dying request of the eighteenth-century benefactor.

While it is true that the pre-eminence of Balliol is a growth of the nineteenth century, yet
the college can count among its worthies one of the greatest names in English mediaeval history,
that of John Wycliffe. He was probably a scholar of Balliol, and certainly Master for some
years about 1360. But he left the college for a country living, and his time at Balliol is
not associated with either of his most important works--his translation of the Bible or his
order of "Poor Preachers." While at Balliol, he was rather "the last of the Schoolmen" than
"the first of the Reformers."

The modern greatness of Balliol is due to the fact that the college awoke more rapidly from
the sleep of the eighteenth century than most of Oxford, and as early as 1828 threw open its
scholarships to free competition. Hence even as early as the time of Dr. Arnold at Rugby, a
"Balliol scholarship" had become "the blue riband of public-school education." It has now passed
into popular phraseology to such an extent that lady novelists, unversed in academic niceties,
confer a "Balliol scholarship" on their heroes, even when entering Cambridge.

Balliol has known how to take full advantage of its opportunity. Governed by a series of eminent
masters, especially Dr. Scott of Greek dictionary fame, and Professor Jowett, the translator
of Plato and the hero of more Oxford stories than any other man, it has been ready to adapt
itself to every new movement. While the governing bodies of other colleges in the middle of
the last century were too often looking only to raising their own fellowships to the highest
possible point, the Balliol dons were denying their own pockets to enrich and strengthen their
college.

Hence, undoubtedly, Balliol for a long time past has had a lion's share of Oxford's great men;
two Archbishops of Canterbury, Tait and Temple, the present Archbishop of York, Cardinal Manning,
a Prime Minister in Mr. Asquith, a Speaker in Lord. Peel, two Viceroys of India in Lord Lansdowne
and Lord Curzon, poets like Clough, Matthew Arnold and Swinburne, these are only some of the
more outstanding names. It is this which makes Balliol Hall so particularly interesting to
the ordinary man; knowledge of present-day affairs, not of history, is all that is needed to
appreciate its array of portraits.

Nor has Balliol been unmindful of the social movements of our time. It is the chosen home of
the Workers' Educational Association in Oxford, and in Arnold Toynbee it produced one of the
pioneers and martyrs of modern social progress. Truly Balliol has much more to show to the
visitor than its ultra-modern front on the Broad would promise.

The street, on which Balliol looks out, is associated with the most famous scene of Oxford
history; the stone with a cross in the middle of the road marks the traditional site of the
burning of the bishops, Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer, although their memorial has been erected
200 yards further north in St. Giles', and though antiquarians argue (probably correctly) that
the actual pyre was a little further south, in fact, behind the present row of Broad Street houses.

But it is the living activity of the college, not the sad memories of the street in front,
that gives the interest to the picture. The intellectual life of the Balliol men has been well
described by Professor J. C. Shairp, whose verses on "Balliol Scholars" are likely to be remembered
by Oxford in long days to come for their associations, if not for their poetic merits. He describes
what a privilege it is "to have passed," with men who became famous afterwards,

          "The threshold of young life,
     Where the man meets, not yet absorbs, the boy,
     And ere descending to the dusky strife,
     Gazed from clear heights of intellectual joy
     That an undying image left enshrined."

 This will come home to many, as they think on their happy Oxford
days when they had life all before them, even though their
contemporaries have not become archbishops like Temple or poets like
Matthew Arnold.

 [Plate V. Balliol College, Broad Street Front]

MERTON COLLEGE

    "I passed beside the reverend walls
     In which of old I wore the gown."
                           TENNYSON.

 [Plate VI. Merton College : The Tower]

Merton is not only the oldest college in Oxford, it is also, as is claimed on the monument
of the founder, Walter de Merton, in his Cathedral of Rochester, the model of "omnium quotquot
extant collegiorum." Peterhouse, the first college at Cambridge, which was founded (1281) seven
years later than Merton, had its statutes avowedly copied from those of its Oxford predecessor.

So important a new departure in education calls for special notice. It is interesting to see
how the English college system grew out of the long rivalry between the Regular and the Secular
clergy which was so prominent in the mediaeval church. The appointment of a Vicegerent to the
Almighty, and the edict requiring homage to be done to him, are announced "on a day" to the
host of Angels assembled by special summons for this purpose. During the night following, one
of the chief Archangels, thereafter called Satan, draws off his forces to the north under pretext
of preparing a welcome for the new Commander, who is to make a progress through his domain, promulgating
more new laws. The purpose of the rebels is discerned by the All-Knowing, who makes this strange
speech to the Son:--

Let us advise, and to this hazard draw With speed what force is left, and all employ In our defence,
lest unawares we lose This our high place, our sanctuary, our hill.

The founder of Merton had the same purpose as the founder of the College of the Sorbonne at
Paris, a slightly earlier institution (1257). He intended that his college should rival the
houses of the Dominicans and the Franciscans. These friaries were in the southern part of Oxford,
and have completely perished, leaving behind only the names of two or three mean streets; but
the college system which Walter de Merton founded has grown with the growth of Oxford and of
England, and is to-day as vigorous and as useful as ever.

Walter de Merton provided his fellows with noble buildings, at once for their common life and
for their own private accommodation, and also with endowments sufficient to enable them to
live in comfort, free from anxiety; most important of all, he gave them powers of self-government,
so that they might recruit their own numbers and carry out for themselves the objects prescribed
by him in his Statutes.

In this great foundation then the three characteristic features of a college are found--a common
life, powers of self-government, with the right of choosing future members, and endowments
that enable religion and learning to flourish, free from more pressing cares. It is these features
which distinguish the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge, and which have determined their history.

Walter de Merton definitely prescribed that none of the fellows who benefited by his foundation
should be monks or friars; to take the vows involved forfeiture of a fellowship. He also especially
urged on the members of his society that, when any of them rose to "ampler fortune" /(uberior
fortuna)/, they should not forget their /alma mater/.

The founder died in 1277, so that none of the college buildings were complete in his time,
except perhaps the treasury, which, with its high-pitched roof of stone, lies in the opposite
corner of the Mob Quad to that shown in our picture. Why the Quad is called "The Mob Quad,"
nobody knows. As was fitting, the chapel was the first part of the college to be finished--about
1300--and it is a splendid specimen of early Geometrical Gothic; it retains a little of the
old glass, given by one of the early fellows.

The north side of the Mob Quad, which is shown in our picture, is very little later than the
Chapel, and the whole of the Quad was finished before 1400; the rooms in it have been the homes
of Oxford men for more than five centuries. It is sad to think that so unique a building was
almost destroyed in the middle of the nineteenth century, by the zeal of "reformers"; it was
actually condemned to be pulled down, to make way for modern buildings, but, fortunately, there
was an irregularity in the voting. Mr. G. C. Brodrick, then a young fellow, later the Warden
of the college, insisted on the matter being discussed again at a later meeting, and at this
the Mob Quad was saved by a narrow majority. "He will go to Heaven for it," as Corporal Trim
said of the English Guards, who saved his broken regiment at Steinkirk.

The "reformers" of Merton had to be content with cutting down their beautiful "Grove" and spoiling
the finest view in Oxford by erecting the ugliest building which Mid-Victorian taste inflicted
on the University.

In the old buildings which so narrowly escaped destruction may have lived John Wycliffe, who
is claimed as a fellow of Merton in an almost contemporary list; his activity in Oxford belongs
rather to the later time, when he was Master of Balliol. One of the commonest kinds of critical
stupidity is the kind that discovers something "unfinished" in a great work of art, and suggests
desirable trimmings and additions. Milton knew that Paradise Lost was finished, in every sense. But
room had not been found in it for all that now held the chief place
in his matured thought.

When he chose the theme of his great work, the actual temptation of man probably bulked much
larger in his design than it does in the completed poem.
 But the king did more harm than good to the college; it was turned
into lodgings for Queen Henrietta Maria and her court, and ladies were intruded and children
born within college walls. These proceedings were respectable, though unusual; but the college
was even more humiliated by the visit of Charles II, who installed there, among other court
ladies, the notorious Duchess of Cleveland. The college, however, with the Revolution, returned
to less courtly views, and its Whig connection found an honourable representative in Richard
Steele, the founder of the /Tatler/. It is not surprising that so cheerful a gentleman left
Oxford without a degree, but "with the love of the whole society." The college register specially
notes his gift of his /Tatler/; he was acting on the sound rule, by no means so universally
followed as it ought to be, that Oxford authors should present their books to their college
library.

Merton, as has been said, is the "type" college, if one may thus apply a scientific term; hence
it is fitting that to it belong the two men to whom perhaps Oxford owes most. Thomas Bodley
was a fellow and lecturer in Greek there, before he left Oxford for diplomacy, and accumulated
that wealth which he used to endow the oldest and the most fascinating, if not the largest,
of British libraries. And among the men who have gained from "the rare books in the public
library" a way to a "perfect elysium," none better deserves remembrance than the Mertonian,
Antony Wood, whose monument stands in Merton Chapel, but who has raised /monumentum aere perennius/
to himself, in his /History of the University of Oxford/ and his /Athenae Oxonienses/.

 [Plate VII. Merton College : The Library Interior]

MERTON LIBRARY

    "Hail, tree of knowledge! thy leaves fruit; which well
     Dost in the midst of Paradise arise,
             Oxford, the Muses' paradise,
     From which may never sword the blest expel.
     Hail, bank of all past ages! where they lie
 To enrich, with interest, posterity."
                                               COWLEY.

"The appearance of the library" (at Merton), says the great Cambridge scholar, J. Willis Clark,
in his /Care of Books/, "is so venerable, so unlike any similar room with which I am acquainted,
that it must always command admiration."

He classes it with the libraries at Oxford of Corpus, St. John's, Jesus, and Magdalen, and
he regretfully adds that no college library in his own University has retained the same old
features as these have done. But none of the four can compare with Merton, either in antiquarian
interest or in picturesqueness; it stands in a class by itself.

The Library was built by the munificence of Bishop Reed of Chichester between 1377 and 1379;
the dormer windows, however (seen in Plate VII), are later in date. The bookcases in the larger
room were made in 1623; one of the original half cases, however, was spared, that nearest to
the entrance on the north side, and this is the most interesting single feature in the whole
library. It need hardly be said that the reading-desk in early times was actually attached
to the bookcase; the library then was a place to read in, not one from which books were taken
to be read. The books were to be kept "in some common and secure place," and they were "chained
in the library chamber for the common use of the fellows" (J. W. Clark).

The old case that has been retained still has its chained books, and traces of the arrangement
for chains can be seen in the other cases. At almost the same date Dr. Thomas Burnet was causing
a mild sensation in the theological world by expounding the earlier chapters of the Book of
Genesis in an allegorical sense, and denying to them the significance
of a literal history.

Voltaire, while he praises Milton, remarks that the topic of Paradise Lost has afforded nothing
among the French but some lively lampoons, and that those who have the highest respect for the
mysteries of the Christian religion cannot forbear now and then making free with the devil,
the serpent, the frailty of our first parents, and the rib that was
stolen from Adam.

"I have often admired," he goes on, "how barren the subject appears, and how fruitful it grows under
his hands."
 A similar ceremony, with a similar entry in the register, marked
the replacement of the book in the library. Though printing was already beginning to multiply
books, yet then, and for long after, a book was a most valuable possession.

Such books are numbered by hundreds in every college library, and it is only too true of them that:

    "Hence in these times, untouched the pages lie
     And slumber out their immortality."

The reception of such a book in a library was an event, and the record of one gift occupies
six whole lines in the Merton Register; its donors are named as "two venerable men," and the
entry sweetly concludes, "Let us, therefore, pray for them."

The library, problem, acute everywhere, is perhaps especially so in a college library. How
can it keep pace with the multiplicity of studies? His matter was to be arranged and his verse handled
by his own ingenuity and at his own peril. He left a highroad behind him, along which many a tuneful
pauper has since limped; but before him he found nothing but the
jungle and false fires.
These problems and such as these have not yet been solved by college librarians; but the college
library, quite apart from the books in it, is an education in itself. The old days of neglect
are past, the days reflected in the scandalous story--told of more than one college--about
the old fellow who was missing for two months, and, after being searched for high and low,
was found hanging dead in the college library. Now the libraries everywhere are being used
continually, and men can realize in them, perhaps better than anywhere else, how great the
past of Oxford has been, and can form some idea of the labours of forgotten generations, which
have made the University what it was and what it is.

