MYTHS AND LEGENDS
                                   OF
                              OUR OWN LAND

                                   By
                           Charles M. Skinner

                                Vol. 8. Every tree has a soul; the forests
were peopled with good and evil genii, the latter receiving oblation at
the devil-dances, for it was not worth while to appease those already
good; and the mountains are the home of tamanouses, or guardian spirits,
that sometimes fight together--as, when the spirits of Mount Tacoma
engaged with those of Mount Hood, fire and melted stone burst from their
peaks, their bellowing was heard afar, and some of the rocks flung by
Tacoma fell short, blocking the Columbia about the Dalles.

Across these fantastic reports of older time there come echoes of a later instruction, adapted
and blended into native legend so that the point of division cannot be indicated. Such is that
of the mysterious voyager of the Whulge--the Siwash name for the sound that takes the name
of Puget from one of Vancouver's officers. Across this body of water the stranger came in a
copper canoe that borrowed the glories of the morning. When he had landed and sent for all
the red men, far and near, he addressed to them a doctrine that provoked expressions of contempt--a
doctrine of love.

To fight and steal no more, to give of their goods to men in need, to forgive their enemies,--they
could not understand such things. He promised--this radiant stranger--to those who lived right,
eternal life on seas and hills more fair than these of earth, but they did not heed him. At
last, wearying of his talk, they dragged him to a tree and nailed him fast to it, with pegs
through his hands and feet, and jeered and danced about him, as they did about their victims
in the devil-dance, until his head fell on his breast and his life went out.

A great storm, with thunderings and earthquakes! They took the body down and would have buried
it, but, to! it arose to its feet, as the sun burst forth, and resumed its preaching. Then
they took the voyager's word for truth and never harmed him more, while they grew less warlike
as each year went by until, of all Indians, they were most peaceable.

TAMANOUS OF TACOMA

Mount Tacoma has always been a place of superstitious regard among the Siwash (Sauvage) of
the Northwest. In their myths it was the place of refuge for the last man when the Whulge was
so swollen after long rain that its waters covered the earth. All other men were drowned. The
waves pursued the one man as he climbed, rising higher and higher until they came to his knees,
his waist, his breast. Hope was almost gone, and he felt that the next wave would launch him
into the black ocean that raged about him, when one of the tamanouses of the peak, taking pity
on him, turned his feet to stone. The storm ceased, and the waters fell away. The man still
stood there, his feet a part of the peak, and he mourned that he could not descend to where
the air was balmy and the flowers were opening. The Spirit of all Things came and bade him
sleep, and, after his eyes were closed, tore out one of his ribs and changed it to a woman.
When lifted out of the rock the man awoke, and, turning with delight to the woman, he led her
to the sea-shore, and there in a forest bower they made their home. As the book was for a very
distinguished man, the patriotic binder has stamped on the covers
and back every device he had in his shop.

Nearly all the volumes have the bold autograph of "Go. Washington," upon their title pages,
and the well-known book-plate, with his name, armorial bearings, and motto, Exitus acta probat,[1]
on the inside of the covers.

There are persons at the present day who have very positive opinions on the subject of prose
fiction, believing that great characters like Jonathan Edwards and
George Washington never read such naughty books when they were young.

Let us see.

On the title page of the first volume is the autograph of George
Washington, written in the cramped hand of a boy of fourteen.

The work shows more evidence of having been attentively read, even to the end of the third volume,
than any in the library. Here is the "Life and Opinions of John Buncle," a book which it is
better that boarding-school misses should not read. Yet Washington read it, and enjoyed the
fun; for it is one of the few books he speaks of in his correspondence as having read and
enjoyed. The present generation of readers are not familiar with John Buncle. Of the book and
its author, Hazlitt says "John Buncle is the English Rabelais.

The soul of Francis Rabelais passed into Thomas Amory, the author of John Buncle. Both were
physicians, and enemies of much gravity. Their great business was to enjoy life. Rabelais indulges
his spirit of sensuality in wine, in dried neats' tongues, in Bologna sausages, in Botorgas.
John Buncle shows the same symptoms of inordinate satisfaction in bread and butter. While Rabelais
roared with Friar John and the monks, John Buncle gossiped with the ladies."

It is the good fortune of the youth of our age that they are served with fun in more refined and
discreet methods; yet there is a melancholy satisfaction in finding in the life of a great historical
character like Washington, who was the embodiment of dignity and propriety, that he could, at
some period of his existence, unbend and enjoy a book like John Buncle. He becomes, thereby,
more human; and the distance between him and ordinary mortals seems to diminish.

Thomas Comber's "Discourses on the Common Prayer," has three autographs of his father, Augustine
Washington, one of his mother, Mary Washington, and one of his own, written when nine years
of age. The fly-leaves he had used as a practice book for writing his father's and mother's
names and his own, and for constructing monograms of the family names.[2]

The
pamphlets in the collection have intrinsically more value than the
larger works.

They were nearly all contemporaneous, and were sent to Washington by their authors, with inscriptions
upon the title pages in their authors' handwriting, of the most profound respect and esteem.
 He looked back at Tacoma and admired the splendor of
its snows and the beauty of its form, and had never a care for the riches in its crater. The
wood was strange to him as he descended, but at sunset he reached his wigwam, where an aged
woman was cooking salmon. Wife and husband recognized each other, though he had been asleep
and she a-sorrowing for years. In his joy to be at home the miser dug up all his treasure that
he had secreted and gave of his wealth and wisdom to whoso needed them. Life, love, and nature
were enough, he found, and he never braved the tamanous again.

THE DEVIL AND THE DALLES

In days when volcanoes were playing in the Northwest and the sternly beautiful valley of the
Columbia was a hell of ash and lava, the fiend men of the land met at intervals on the heated
rocks to guzzle and riot together. It was at one of these meetings in the third summer after
Tacoma had stopped spouting that the devil urged a lesson from the growing peace and joy of
nature, and prayed the fiend men to desist from killing and eating each other and live in love.

With a howl of rage at such a proposal they set upon him, tossing their tails in such a threatening
manner that he deemed it best to be off, and as his hoofs clattered over the country his brain
was busy in devising an escape. Nearing the mountain bulwarks of an inland sea, whose breakers'
rhythmic roar he heard above the yells of his pursuers, a hope came into his head, and new
vigor into his tail, though you might have thought the latter accession was not needed, for
his tail was of prodigious length and strength. He whirled this limb aloft and beat it on the
earth. A chasm opened at the stroke, and the devil skipped across to the safe side of it.

Safe? No; for the fiend men in advance took the leap and came beside him. The tormented one
could thrash any two of them at once, but he was not equal to a thousand. He brandished his
weapon once more and it fell with a crash. Earth shook, dust arose in clouds, and a deeper
cleft than before yawned through the valley. Again the fiend men tried to reach him, and, though
the gap was bigger and many fell into it, hundreds made the jump and overtook him. He must
make one more attempt. The tail revolved for a third time, and with the energy of despair he
flailed the ground with it.

A third ravine was split through the rock, and this time the earth's crust cracked away to
the eastward, giving outlet to the sea, which came pouring through the canon, breaking rocks
from mountains and grinding them to powder in its terrific progress. Gasping with fatigue,
the unhappy one toiled up a hill and surveyed his work with satisfaction, for the flood engulfed
the fiend men and they left no member of their race behind them.

When they had all been happily smashed or drowned, the devil skipped lightly over the channels
he had cut and sought his family, though with a subdued expression of countenance, for his
tail--his strength and pride--was bruised and broken beyond repair, and all the little imps
that he fathered to the world afterward had little dangling tails like monkeys' instead of
megatheriums', and in time these appendages disappeared. But what was the use of them? The
fiend men they had fought against were dead and the rising race they could circumvent by subtler
means. The inland sea drained off. Its bed is now the prairie, and the three strokes of the
devil's tail are indelibly recorded in the bed of the Columbia at the Dalles. And the devil
never tried to be good again.

CASCADES OF THE COLUMBIA

When the Siwash, as the Northwestern Indians called themselves, were few, Mount Hood was kept
by the Spirit of Storms, who when he shook his robe caused rain or snow to fall over the land,
while the Fire Spirit flashed his lightnings from Mount Adams. Across the vale between them
stretched a mighty bridge of stone, joining peak to peak, and on this the Siwash laid his offering
of salmon and dressed skins. Here, too, the tribal festivals were kept. The priestess of the
arch-Mentonee, who fed the fire on the tribal altar "unimpassioned by a mortal throb"--had
won the love of the wild tamanouses of the mountains, but she was careless alike of coaxing
and threats, and her heart was as marble to them.

Jealous of each other, these two spirits fell to fighting, and, appalled by the whirl of fire
and cloud, of splintering trees and crumbling rocks, the Indians fled in terror toward the
lowlands, but she, unhurt and undaunted, kept in her place, and still offered praise to the
one god. Yet she was not alone, for watchful in the shadow of a rock stood a warrior who had
loved her so long, without the hope of lovers, that he, too, had outgrown fear. Though she
had given him but passing words and never a smile, his own heart was the warmer and the heavier
with its freight, and it was his way to be ever watching her in some place where she might
not be troubled by the sight of him.

The war waxed fiercer, and at last the spirits met at the centre of the arch, and in roar and
quake and deluge the great bridge swayed and cracked. The young man sprang forward. He seized
Mentonee in his arms. There was time for one embrace that cheated death of sorrow. Then, with
a thunder like a bursting world, the miles of masonry crashed down and buried the two forever.
The Columbia leaps the ruins of the bridge in the rapids that they call the Cascades, and the
waters still brawl on, while the sulky tamanouses watch the whitened floods from their mountain-tops,
knowing that never again will they see so fair a creature as Mentonee.

THE DEATH OF UMATILLA

Umatilla, chief of the Indians at the Cascades of the Columbia, was one of the few red men
of his time who favored peace with the white settlers and lent no countenance to the fierce
revels of the "potlatch." In these "feasts of gifts" the savages, believing themselves to be
"possessed by the spirit," lashed themselves into a frenzy that on several occasions was only
quieted by the shedding of blood. Black Eagle's Feather--or Benjamin, as he was called by the
settlers--was the only one of the children of the old chief who survived a summer of plague,
and on this boy Umatilla had put all his hopes and affections.

The lad had formed a great trust in his white teacher, a college-bred man from the East, who
had built a little school-house beside the Columbia and was teaching the Indian idea how to
shoot something beside white people. This boy and his teacher had hunted together; they had
journeyed in the same canoe; had tramped over the same trail to the great falls of the Missouri;
and at the Giant Spring had seen the Piegans cast in their gifts, in the belief that the manitou
of the place would deliver them in the hereafter to the sun-god, whom they worshipped. One
day Benjamin fell ill, and the schoolmaster saw that he, too, was to die of the plague. Old
Umatilla received the news with Indian stoicism, but he went into the forest to be alone for
a time.

When he returned day was breaking and a flock of wild-geese trumpeted overhead. The boy heard
them, and said, "Boston tilicum" (white man), "does the Great Father tell the geese where to go?"

"Yes."

"Then he will tell me, too?"

"Yes."

"We shall never go back to the Missouri together. My father--"

"We will watch over him."

"That is well." And, in a few hours, he had intrusted the guidance of his soul through the
world of shadows to the white man's unseen father.

Umatilla sat beside the body through the night, and in the morning he called his people together.
He told them that he was prepared to follow his boy out of the world, but that first he wanted
to have their promise that they would no longer war on the whites, but look to them for friendship
and guidance. There was some murmuring at this, for the ruder fellows were already plotting
a descent on the settlers, but Umatilla had given them great store of goods at the last potlatch,
and they reluctantly consented. The venerable chief ordered them to make a grave for Benjamin
like the white man's, and, when it had been dug, four warriors laid the body of his son within
it. Then, standing at the brink, the chief said, "My heart is growing cold, for it is in the
grave there with my son. When I take three steps to the side of him, I, too, shall die. Be
good to the white men, as you have said, and bury us both together. Great Spirit, I come."
And, sinking to the ground, the old man's life ebbed in a breath. They buried him and his son
in a single grave, and next day they went to the teacher and asked him to lead and instruct
them. And with that year ended all trouble between red and white men along the Columbia.

HUNGER VALLEY

East of San Francisco is a narrow valley opening to the bay of San Pablo. In spite of its pleasant
situation and fruitful possibilities, it had no inhabitants until 1820, when Miguel Zamacona
and his wife Emilia strayed into it, while on a journey, and, being delighted with its scenery,
determined to make it their home. In playful mockery of its abundance they gave to it the name
El Hambre [Hunger] valley.

After some weeks of such hardship as comes to a Mexican from work, Miguel had built an adobe
cabin and got a garden started, while he caught a fish or shot a deer now and then, and they
got on pretty well. At last it became necessary that he should go to Yerba Buena, as San Francisco
was then called, for goods. His burros were fat and strong, and there should be no danger.
Emilia cried at being left behind, but the garden had to be tended, and he was to be back in
exactly three weeks. She waited for twenty-two days; then, her anxiety becoming unendurable,
she packed an outfit on a burro and started on the trail. From time to time she called his
name, and "Miguel!" echoed sweetly from hills and groves, but there was no other answer, save
when an owl would hoot. Rolled in a blanket she slept on lupin boughs, but was off at peep
of day again, calling--calling--high and clear among the solitudes.

During the second day her burro gave a rasping bray, and a hee-haw answered from the bush.
It was Miguel's burro. He had come at last! Leaping to her feet, in her impatience, she ran
to meet him, and found him lying on the earth, staring silently at the sky. All that day she
sat beside him, caressing his hand, talking, crying, bathing his face with water from the marsh--the
poison marsh--and it was not until sunset that she could bring herself to admit that he was
dead--had been dead for at least two days.

She put the blanket over him, weighted it with stones, and heaped reeds upon it; then she started
for home. A wandering trader heard her story, but years elapsed before any other settler entered
Hunger valley. They found her skeleton then in the weedy garden. The adobe stands tenantless
in the new village of Martinez, and the people have so often heard that the ghosts of the Zamaconas
haunt the place that they have begun to disbelieve it.

THE WRATH OF MANITOU

The county called Kern, in California, lies mostly in a circular valley, and long, long before
the evil one had created the pale face it was the home of a nation advanced in arts, who worshipped
the Great Spirit in a building with a lofty dome. But the bravery and wisdom of one of their
own people made them forget the Manitou and idolize the man who seemed the most like him. They
brought him to the temple and prayed and sang to him, and held their sacred dances there, so
angering God that he rent the earth and swallowed them. Nothing was seen of this people for
years after, but their stone tools were left on neighboring hill-sides. Manitou even poured
water into the valley, and great creatures sported in the inland sea.

But, ere long, he repented his anger, and, in a fit of impatience at what he had done, he threw
up quantities of earth that smoked with heat, and thus created the Sierra Nevada, while he
broke away the hills at the foot of the lake, and the waters drained into the sea at the Golden
Gate. This again made dry land of the valley, and, opening the earth once more, he released
the captive tribe. The imprisoned people had not forgotten their arts nor their boldness; they
made the place blossom again; they conquered other tribes, and Manitou declared them his chosen
ones, from whom alone he would accept sacrifice. But their chief became so ambitious that he
wanted to supplant the Manitou in the worship of the people, and finally, in a lunacy of self-conceit,
he challenged the god to single combat.

Under pretence of accepting the challenge, the Great Spirit set the offenders to wander through
the desert until they reached a valley in the Sierras, opposite Tehachapi, where he caused
them to be exterminated by a horde of savages from the Mojave desert. Then, in a fit of disgust
at refractory humanity, he evoked a whirlwind and stripped away every living thing from the
country of the savages, declaring that it should be empty of human beings from that time forward.
And it was so.

THE SPOOK OF MISERY HILL

Tom Bowers, who mined on Misery Hill, near Pike City, California, never had a partner, and
he never took kindly to the rough crowd about the place. One day he was missing. They traced
his steps through the snow from his cabin to the brink of a great slope where he had been prospecting,
but there they vanished, for a landslide had blotted them out. His body was exhumed far below
and decently buried, yet it was said that it was so often seen walking about the mouth of his
old shaft that other men avoided the spot.

Thriftless Jim Brandon, in a spasm of industry, began work on the abandoned mine, and for a
while he made it pay, for he got money and squared accounts with his creditors; but after a
time it appeared that somebody else was working on the claim, for every morning he found that
the sluice had been tampered with and the water turned on. He searched for the trespasser in
vain, and told "the boys" that if they called that joking it had grown tiresome.

One night he loaded his rifle, and, from a convenient nook, he watched for the intruder. The
tamaracks crooned in the wind, the Yuba mumbled in the canon, the Sierras lay in a line of
white against the stars. As he crept along to a point of better vantage he came to a tree with
something tacked on it--something that shone in the dark like a match. In its own light he
read, "Notice! I, Thomas Bowers, claim this ground for placer mining." Raising his hand to
tear off the paper, he was amazed to feel a thrill pass through it, and his arm fell palsied
at his side. But the notice was gone.

Now came the sound of water flowing, and, as he angrily caught his gun and turned toward the
sluice, the letters shone again in phosphorescence on the tree. There was the sound of a pick
in the gravel now, and, crawling stealthily towards the sluice, he saw, at work there, Tom
Bowers--dead, lank, his head and face covered with white hair, his eyes glowing from black
sockets. Half unconsciously Jim brought his rifle to his shoulder and fired. A yell followed
the report, then the dead man came running at him like the wind, with pick and shovel in either
hand.

Away went Brandon, and the spectre followed, up hill, in and out of woods, over ditches, through
scrub, on toward Pike City. The miners were celebrating a new find with liberal potations and
a dance in the saloon when, high above the crash of boots, the shouted jokes, the laughter,
and the clink of glasses, came a sound of falling, a scream-then silence. They hurried into
the road. "Possessed of Christian sentiments, they fail not to exercise them when opportunity
offers. Things pleasing rejoice them, and melancholy circumstances
pall their appetites for amusements.

They brook no insults, and are equally prone to forgiveness, as to
resentments.

They have gratitude also, and will even expose their lives to wipe off the obligation of past
favors; nor do they want any of the refinements of taste, so much the boast of those who call
themselves Christians.
 Animals that die in the neighborhood mummify, but do
not decay, and it is surmised that the remains of many a thoughtless or ignorant prospector
lie bleached in the plain. On the east side of Dead Mountain are points of whitened rock that
at a distance look like sheeted figures, and these, the Indians say, are the ghosts of their
brethren.

In the heart of this desert is said to be the ruin of a pueblo, or village, though the shape
and size of it suggest that it was made for a few persons rather than for a tribe or family.
Long ago, the tale runs, this place of horrors was a fair and fertile kingdom, ruled by a beautiful
but capricious queen. She ordered her subjects to build her a mansion that should surpass those
of her neighbors, the Aztecs, and they worked for years to make one worthy of her, dragging
the stones and timbers for miles. Fearing lest age, accident, or illness should forbid her
to see the ending of her dream, she ordered so many of her subjects to assist that her tribe
was reduced to practical slavery.

In her haste and heartlessness she commanded her own daughter to join the bearers of burdens,
and when the toilers flagged in step in the noonday heat she strode among them and lashed their
naked backs. As royalty was sacred, they did not complain, but when she struck her daughter
the girl turned, threw down her load of stone, and solemnly cursed her mother and her kingdom;
then, overcome by heat and weariness, she sank to the earth and died. Vain the regrets and
lamentations of the queen. The sun came out with blinding heat and light, vegetation withered,
animals disappeared, streams and wells dried up, and at last the wretched woman gave up her
life on a bed of fever, with no hand to soothe her dying moments, for her people, too, were
dead. 'Nothing more assimulates a man to a beast,' says the learned Montesquieu, 'than being
among freemen, himself a slave; for slavery clogs the mind, perverts
the moral faculty, and reduces the conduct of man to the standard
of brutes.' What right have you to expect greater things of these
poor mortals?

You would not blame a brute for committing ravages upon his prey;
nor ought you to censure a slave for making attempts to regain his
liberty, even at the risk of life itself.

 While hunting, one day, the tutelary spirit of the valley--the
lovely Tisayac--revealed herself to him, and from that moment he knew no peace, nor did he
care for the well-being of his people; for she was not as they were: her skin was white, her
hair was golden, and her eyes like heaven; her speech was as a thrush-song and led him to her,
but when he opened his arms she rose lighter than any bird and vanished in the sky.

Lacking his direction Yo Semite became a desert, and when Tisayac returned she wept to see
the corn lands grown with bushes and bears rooting where the huts had been. On a mighty dome
of rock she knelt and begged the Great Spirit to restore its virtue to the land. He did so,
for, stooping from the sky, he spread new life of green on all the valley floor, and smiting
the mountains he broke a channel for the pent-up meltings of the snows, and the water ran and
leaped far down, pooling in a lake below and flowing off to gladden other land. The birds returned,
the flowers sprang up, corn swayed in the breeze, and the people, coming back, gave the name
of Tisayac to South Dome, where she had knelt.

Then came the chief home again, and, hearing that the spirit had appeared, was smitten with
love more strong than ever. Climbing to the crest of a rock that spires three thousand feet
above the valley, he carved his likeness there with his hunting-knife, so that his memory might
live among his tribe. As he sat, tired with his work, at the foot of the Bridal Veil, he saw,
with a rainbow arching around her, the form of Tisayac shining from the water. She smiled on
him and beckoned. His quest was at an end. With a cry of joy he sprang into the fall and disappeared
with Tisayac. Two rainbows quivered on the falling water, and the sun went down.

THE GOVERNOR'S RIGHT EYE

Old Governor Hermenegildo Salvatierra, of Presidio, California, sported only one eye--the left--because
the other had been shot out by an Indian arrow. With his sound one he was gazing into the fire,
on a windy afternoon in the rainy season, when a chunky man in a sou'wester was-ushered into
his presence, and after announcing that he was no other than Captain Peleg Scudder, of the
schooner General Court, from Salem, he was made welcome in a manner quite out of proportion
in its warmth to the importance that such a disclosure would have for the every-day citizen.

He was hailed with wassail and even with wine. The joy of the commandant was so great that
at the third bowl he sang a love ballad, in a voice somewhat cracked, and got on the table
to teach the Yankee how to dance the cachuca. The law forbade any extended stay of Americans
in Spanish waters, and the General Court took herself off that very night--for this, mind you,
was in 1797, when the Spaniard ruled the farther coast.

Next day Salvatierra appeared before his astonished people with a right eye. The priests attached
to the fort gave a special service of praise, and told the miracle to the red men of their
neighborhood as an illustration of the effect of goodness, prayer, and faith. People came from
far and near that they might go to church and see this marvel for themselves. But, alas, for
the governor's repute for piety! It soon began to be whispered around that the new eye was
an evil one; that it read the deepest thoughts of men with its inflexible, cold stare; that
under its influence some of the fathers had been betrayed into confessing things that the commandant
had never supposed a clergyman to be guilty of. The people feared that eye, and ascribed such
rogueries to the old man as had been entirely foreign to his nature hitherto.

This common fear and suspicion reacted, inevitably, and Salvatierra began, unconsciously, to
exhibit some of the traits that his subjects said he possessed. He changed slowly from the
indulgent parent to the stern and exacting law-giver. He did not know, however, what the people
had been saying about him, and never suspected that his eye was likely to get him into trouble.

It was a warm night and he had gone to bed with his windows open--windows that opened from
his garden, and were level, at the bottom, with the floor. A shadowy form stole along the gravel
path and entered one of these windows. It was that of a mission Indian. He had gathered from
the talk of the faithful that it would be a service to the deity as well as to men to destroy
the power of that evil eye. He came beside the bed and looked attentively at the governor,
sleeping there in the light of a candle. Then he howled with fright--howled so loudly that
the old man sprang to his feet--for while the left eye had been fast asleep the evil one was
broad awake and looking at him with a ghostly glare.

In another second the commandant was at the window whirling his trusty Toledo about his head,
lopping ears and noses from the red renegades who had followed in the track of the first. In
the scrimmage he received another jab in the right eye with a fist. When day dawned it was
discovered, with joy, that the evil eye was darkened--and forever. The people trusted him once
more. Finding that he was no longer an object of dread, his voice became kinder, his manner
more gentle. A heavy and unusual rain, that had been falling, passed off that very day, so
that the destruction from flood, which had been prophesied at the missions, was stayed, and
the clergy sang "Te Deum" in the church. The old commandant never, to his dying day, had the
heart to confess that the evil eye was only a glass one.

THE PRISONER IN AMERICAN SHAFT

An Indian seldom forgets an injury or omits to revenge it, be it a real or a fancied one. A
young native of the New Almaden district, in California, fell in love with a girl of the same
race, and supposed that he was prospering in his suit, for he was ardent and the girl was,
seemingly, not averse to him; but suddenly she became cold, avoided him, and answered his greetings,
if they met, in single words. "The talent for music, both vocal and instrumental, appears natural
to them; neither is their genius for literature to be despised. Many instances are recorded
of men of eminence among them. Witness Ignatius Sancho, whose letters
are admired by all men of taste.

Phillis Wheatley, who distinguished herself as a poetess; the Physician of New Orleans; the Virginia
Calculator; Banneker, the Maryland Astronomer, and many others, whom it would be needless to
mention. In a tunnel that branched from American Shaft he had fashioned
a rude cell of stone and wood, and into that he forced and fastened her. He had stocked it
with water and provisions, and for some weeks he held the wretched girl a captive in total
darkness, visiting her whenever he felt moved to do so until, his passion sated, he resolved
to leave the country.

As an act of partial atonement for the wrong he had done, he hung a leather coat at the mouth
of the tunnel, on which, in picture writing, he indicated the whereabouts of the girl. Search
parties had been out from the time of her disappearance, and one of them chanced on this clue
and rescued her as she was on the point of death. The savage who had exacted so brutal and
excessive a revenge fled afar, and his whereabouts were never known.

