Having exhausted, so far as we can imagine, the practical part of our little treatise, we proceed--in
accordance with an idea which we had in our minds at starting--to give a few personal recollections,
and to name one or two lochs where we have enjoyed good sport, and where it is still to be
had for the trouble of going. Reminiscences are, as a rule, not specially interesting to the
general reader, hence we shall not make them too lengthy; for we wish, above all things, that
our readers shall close this volume without experiencing a shadow of weariness. One thing,
however, we would like to say to our younger angling friends--Have as many personal adventures
to look back to as you possibly can. The adventures themselves can be best sought after when
the blood flows fast; for the time will come when the rod and the tackle will perforce have
to be laid aside, and memory will then, unaided, afford you many a pleasant retrospect, and
you will--even companionless--fight your battles over again. You remember the story of the
illustrious Prince Talleyrand: when a young man acknowledged to him that he could not play
whist, Talleyrand said to him--"Young man, what a sad old age you are preparing for yourself!"
We don't mean to go this length as regards fishing; but we safely say that a man who lives
to old age without having been a keen angler, has not only deprived himself of great enjoyments
during his active life, but has neglected to lay up a provision for the time when the memory
of them would have made life's closing seasons sweeter.

Our first acquaintance with LOCH ARD was very pleasant--not, perhaps, so much from any great
expectation of sport, because at that time (many years ago now) we were young at the pastime,
but more from the feeling of treading the ground made classical by the great Magician of the
North, as the scene of the most stirring incidents in 'Rob Roy.' Attached to a big tree in
front of the hotel at Aberfoyle there hangs a coulter, which tradition assigns as the veritable
article which Bailie Nicol Jarvie made red-hot and used as a weapon of offence and defence
when he was in a dilemma in what was, at that time, a very inaccessible part of the Highlands.
Since then many a Glasgow magistrate has visited the spot--the inspection of the line of the
noble waterworks undertaking which supplies the city being a sufficient excuse for the annual
advent of the civic rulers. A railway station (Bucklyvie) is within eight miles of Aberfoyle,
and Aberfoyle is within three miles of Loch Ard, and by the time this book is in the hand of
the reader there will most likely be a railway station at Aberfoyle itself. Shade of Bailie
Nicol Jarvie! what would you say if you were now to be allowed to haunt the old spot? to hear
a locomotive screech where formerly you thought yourself so far "frae the Sautmarket o' Glesca"?
We don't like the idea ourselves, and doubt very much if it will pay. However, it is the fishing
alone which concerns us meantime, and we can at once assure our angling friends that the sport
is good--not but what one has to fish hard for a basket; but the same remark applies to all
our near-at-hand lochs. On an ordinary good day a dozen to eighteen trout may be captured,
and sometimes the baskets are heavier; but eighteen fish, weighing 9 lb. to 12 lb., is a very
fair day's work. The trout average fairly a half pound, and pounders are by no means scarce:
a two-pounder is come across occasionally, but he is the exception. The fish are very pretty,
and for their size give excellent sport. Fine tackle is here absolutely essential to success,
and as a matter of sport should always be used in fishing for common yellow trout. The loch,
for its size, is much fished; and we fear that when the railway facilities are completed, there
will require to be a considerable amount of restocking to keep it up to the old mark. The scenery
is unsurpassed--wood, water, and mountain, making a picture of wondrous beauty. To the north
of the loch, Ben Lomond rears its mighty summit; and in the spring-time (for Loch Ard is an
early loch), before the summer sun has melted the winter's snow, the effect is grand in the
extreme. April, May, and June, are supposed to be the best months for angling; but we see no
reason why, if the weather be favourable, these months should be singled out. The hotel accommodation
at Aberfoyle is excellent. In the early months you must engage a boat beforehand: boatmen first-rate.
Many a happy day we have spent on Loch Ard--sometimes successful and sometimes much the reverse;
but in any case there is a witchery about the place that makes one enjoy himself in spite of
all cares. * * * * *

Tanfield is a considerable village, situated seven miles from Gateshead, in the county of Durham,
and eight miles in a south-west direction from Newcastle-on-Tyne. The above arch is about
a mile from the village, and crosses a deep dell, called Causey Burne, down which an insignificant
streamlet finds its sinuous course. The site possesses some picturesque beauty, though its silvan
pride be

After a season gay and brief, Condemn'd to fade and flee.

It has much of the poet's "bosky bourne," and beside

The huddling brooklet's secret brim,

his pensive mind may feed upon the natural glories of the scene; while, attuned to melancholy,

In
hollow music sighing through the glade, The breeze of autumn strikes the startled ear, And fancy,
pacing through the woodland shade, Hears in the gust the requiem
of the year.

KIRKE WHITE'S Early Poems.

The ARCH was an architectural
wonder of the last century. It was built in the year 1729, as a passage
for the wagon-way, or rail-road for the conveyance of coals from collieries
in the vicinity of Tanfield, which were the property of an association
called "the Great Allies." It is a magnificent stone structure, one
hundred and thirty feet in the span, springing from abutments nine
feet high, to the height of sixty feet: a dial is placed on the top
with a suitable inscription. There are
two boatmen in each boat,--one of whom is paid by the company, the other by the angler; and
we are sorry to say that these men, with a few exceptions, are very much spoiled. There is
a class of anglers(?) who frequent Loch Leven, whose whole aim seems to be, not sport so far
as their own personal efforts are concerned, but the killing of as many fish as possible. If
such a one has engaged a boat, he arms each boatman with a rod, and, of course, fishes himself,
thus having three rods going at once. As we said before, the loch can be drifted without any
attention from the men, after they have pulled up to the wind, and this enables them to get
casting all the time that their employer is doing likewise. Not content with this, a couple
of minnows are generally trolled astern when changing ground. We don't say that a man has not
a right to do as he likes if he pays for his boat; but we do ask, Is this sport? And why should
boatmen be spoiled in this way to such an extent that we have known them sulk a whole day because
a spare rod was not allowed to be put up for their special benefit? But, of course, the men
are just as they have been made, and true anglers, who fish for a day's sport, and not for
the mere sake of slaughter, have the remedy in their own hands. Don't let anything deter you
from fishing Loch Leven. It may be expensive; but if you get a good, or even a fair day, you
will not regret the expense. Get a friend to join you, and the expense is not so heavy after
all; and if your friend and yourself fish perseveringly all day, you will usually be rewarded
with a very fine show of fish. There is no harm in letting your men fish when you are taking
your lunch, but don't allow a third rod to be put up. The boatmen are, as a rule, only fifth-rate
fishers, though, of course, a few of them handle a rod well. Our recollections of Loch Leven
are pleasant in some ways, in others they are not; but don't fail to give it a trial, if only
for the pleasure of handling a big fish on fine gut. The manager of the Loch Leven fishings,
Captain Hall, fills a very difficult post with much acceptance to all concerned.

But to leave the Lowlands and go into the far North, we take you to LOCH ASSYNT, in Sutherlandshire,
and to a little loch near it,--LOCH AWE by name. The journey to Assynt is long and weary: train
to Lairg, and then between thirty and forty miles driving, is a good long scamper for fishing,
but it is worth it. The inn at Inchnadamph is good, but when we were there in 1877 the boat
accommodation was poor enough: perhaps they have improved upon that since. The first day after
our arrival we had to go to Loch Awe, as the boats on the large loch (Assynt) were taken up.
Such a morning of rain and wind! We were wet through our waterproofs during the four-mile drive,
but luckily the weather moderated, and we had an excellent day's fishing. With two in the boat,
we took 57 lb. weight of beautiful fish,--not large, but very game, and spotted intensely red.
It must have been a good day, for many an angler tried his luck after our success, but never
came near that mark, at least when we were there. Loch Assynt is more attractive, however,
inasmuch as the chances of big fish are not remote. Trout of a pound weight, and over, are
not uncommon, while the chance of a grilse adds excitement to the sport. Then ferox, as we
have said in a previous chapter, are, comparatively speaking, not scarce, if one cares to go
in for trolling for them. But, in any case, the angler is always sure of a basket of lovely
yellow trout. On the hills behind the inn there is a small loch, called the MULACH-CORRIE,
in which it is said that the gillaroo trout are to be found. Whether they are the real trout
of that species or not, we cannot say, but certainly they are beautiful fish,--pink in the
scales, and running to large sizes. We saw a basket taken by a friend, and it was a treat to
look at. The fish were all taken with the fly, but we were told afterwards that worm is even
deadlier than fly, and that one should never go there without a supply of "wrigglers." The
hill between the inn and the Mulach-Corrie is a perfect paradise for fern-gatherers. It is
said that about two dozen different kinds can be gathered; and we believe it, for even our
untutored eyes discerned sixteen varieties! Our visit to Inchnadamph must be placed among the
red-letter periods of our fishing life, and to be looked back to with much enjoyment.

LOCH MORAR, in Inverness-shire, is another delightful spot, and somewhat out of the usual track.
The fishing is most excellent, and yellow trout of all sizes are very abundant. Sea-trout and
salmon find their way frequently into the angler's basket; and half-way up the loch, which
is a long one, at a bay into which the Meoble river flows, numbers of sea-fish are to be found.
The best way is to fly-fish up to that bay one day, and seek shelter at night in some shepherd's
cottage, thus being at hand to prosecute salmon and sea-trout fishing the next day, or days,
if you find the sport good. It is right to take a supply of provisions and liquor with you,
for the accommodation is humble. We write this from hearsay, as when we were there in mid-July
salmon and sea-trout were not in the loch in large numbers; but still we caught some of the
latter, and hooked, though, unfortunately, did not kill, any of the former. We should think
that the beginning of August would be the best time for this loch as regards sea-fish; but
the trout-fishing in July is unsurpassable. During our sojourn in 1876 at Arisaig, the nearest
village to the loch, which is six miles off, and necessitating a drive over what was then a
road sadly in need of General Wade's good offices, we had the services of a boatman, Angus
by name, and his two boys, who could not speak a word of English,--Angus managing one boat,
and his boys the other. We had the satisfaction--for indeed it was good fun--to be out with
the boys one day; and the management of the boat had to be done by signals. It was wonderful
how readily the boys got into the way of it, and how well we got on together. We have referred
to the work whence the above was quoted (Hist. Epsom, p. 103), and find it to correspond with
our reprint. The calculation is evidently incorrect: for Childers would thus appear scarcely
to have exceeded half a mile a minute.
The easiest way to Arisaig is by steamer, which usually goes once a-week; but the angler should,
if possible, go to Banavie or Fort-William,--the latter for choice, as Banavie Hotel is famous
for long bills (and we can testify that its notoriety in this respect is deserved),--and then
drive to Arisaig. It is about thirty-eight miles from Fort-William to Arisaig, but the drive
is something to be remembered during a lifetime. Diodorus was so much affected at this as to
die soon afterwards.

Perhaps there is not a more remarkable instance on record showing, in a melancholy though forcible
light, the dominion of mind over the material frame, than the circumstances which attended the
death of John Hunter. This distinguished surgeon and physiologist
died in a fit of enraged passion; and, what is somewhat extraordinary,
he had often predicted that such excitement would prove fatal to him.
The information is very correct so far as we have tried it, sometimes--perhaps most anglers
are inclined that way--erring a little to the couleur de rose side of things, but quite trustworthy
in being followed as a suggester for a fortnight's fishing. We have gained much pleasure in
exploring some of our more remote lochs, of the existence of which we might never have been
aware but for its information. We cannot, however, close this long, but we hope not wearisome,
chapter without singing the praises of our Queen of Scottish Lakes, LOCH LOMOND. The scenery
of this beautiful spot is well known in some ways, but no amount of travelling in a steamer
will reveal its beauties. To the tourist we would say, take a small boat at Luss and engage
a man to row you among the islands which lie between Luss and Balmaha. With this hint to the
tourist, we leave him, and turn the angler's attention to the sport--very precarious at most
times, but excellent at others--to be had on Loch Lomond. Luss is the angling centre, and there
are capital boats and men to be had by writing beforehand to the hotel-keeper, Mr M'Nab, who
deserves much credit for the attention he pays to the wants of anglers.

The yellow-trout fishing is good, but, strange to say, this class of sport is not much sought
after. In April and May as good trout-fishing is to be had as on some other lochs that enjoy
a greater reputation. But if the weather has been at all favourable to the fish running, the
month of June sees the sea-trout fishing fairly commenced. It is a hard loch to fish; and if
you are lucky enough to get two or three sea-trout in a day, consider yourself fortunate. They
are a good average--2 lb. to 3 lb. being quite common--but they spread themselves so much over
a large portion of water that one may fish a whole day and not come across them. This, however,
is the exception, as in an ordinary fair fishing day in June, July, August, and September,
and even October if the weather is mild, they are almost certain to be seen, if not caught.
Some days really good sport is to be had--indeed, one is surprised at the show of fish; but
fish or no fish, the charm of Loch Lomond is everlasting. The angler finds his way back over
and over again, till, as in our own experience, the islands of Lonaig, Moan, Cruin, Fad, and
last and least, Darroch, the great landing-spot, are as familiar to him as his daily business
haunts. Then the chances of a salmon are good--indeed, this year (1881) a great many have been
killed; but somehow or another the sea-trout fishing has not been so good, and though a salmon
is always a salmon, we would rather see a good show of sea-trout at any time. Like our neighbours,
we have had good and bad days on Loch Lomond; but disappointment has never soured us--indeed,
the fascination seems to get stronger. And it is so very convenient for a day's fishing--down
in the morning and home at night, with a good long day between. The charge for boatman is 5s.
to 6s. and lunch; and though this seems high, it must not be forgotten that the distances are
great. A boat costs 2s. per day. The men are good all over, some of them really first-rate.
Many and many a story we could tell of happy fishing days, and of days most enjoyably spent
when fishing was no go; but mostly every angler can do the same, and we don't wish to become
too tiresome. Perhaps if we get the chance we may extend this chapter on some future occasion,
and add some experiences of as yet untried places.

CHAPTER XIII.

CONCLUSION.

Brother of the gentle art, we bid you farewell! We have done our best to give you the benefit
of our experience in the peaceful pursuit of loch-fishing; and if we have said too much or
too little, pray excuse us, and in your goodness of heart reprove us for our verbosity, and
tell us what is awanting. The spirit on our part has been very willing; but the memory may
have been defective when it should have been most active, and quite possibly our love for the
art may have somewhere or another led us into discursiveness where we should have been brief.
We are all human, and he is a poor mortal who thinks he cannot err. Again we say farewell!--not
for long, however, we hope. Who knows where we may meet? If we do, and you recognise us, don't
forget to give us a little encouragement, and, if you can, new material for extending the usefulness
of this publication. As we write, the hand of winter is upon us, and the rod and reel have
been relegated to safe quarters; but spring will return, and the enforced cessation of our
enjoyment will only add new zest to the music of the reel

    "When green leaves come again."

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

                LATELY PUBLISHED, FIFTH EDITION, REVISED.

                            BY JOHN COLQUHOUN.

    2 vols. post 8vo, with Two Portraits and other Illustrations. 26s.

                       SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

"In the present delightful volumes, however, he presents all lovers of Scotland with the completest
details of every Highland sport, on all of which he is an unexceptionable authority; and with
what many will value even more, a series of life-like sketches of the rarer and more interesting
animals of the country. He has thus brought up to the present level of knowledge the history
of all the scarce birds and beasts of Scotland.... Henceforth it must necessarily find a place
in the knapsack of every Northern tourist who is fond of our wild creatures, and is simply
indispensable in every Scotch shooting-lodge."--Academy.

"We should recommend fishers to study carefully all the chapters on fishing for salmon, loch
trout, sea trout, and yellow trout, whatever may be their experience or erudition. They will
find general hints of immense use which they can apply to that local knowledge of their own
river or 'water' which no books can teach, and which Mr Colquhoun himself would equally have
to learn. But no chapter ought to be skipped, even by a reader who aspires to far less than
the fourfold distinction of a Highland hunter, which consists in killing a red-deer, an eagle,
a salmon, and a seal."--Saturday Review.

"The book is one written by a gentleman for gentlemen, healthy in tone, earnest in purpose,
and as fresh, breezy, and life-giving as the mountain air of the hills amongst which the sport
it chronicles is carried on."--The World.

"One of those rare and delightful books which, with all the fulness of knowledge, breathe the
very freshness of the country, and either console you in your city confinement, or make you
sigh to be away, according to the humour in which you happen to read it."--Blackwood's Magazine.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                          LATELY PUBLISHED. 

                     In this doctrine he was followed by Nichols, in his "Anima Medica."

                         According to the doctrines
                of Stahl, the disorders of the body proceed principally from the
mind; and, according as it is variously affected, it produces different
effects (diseases.) Hence, when the mind, which animates the most
robust and best organized body, is violently agitated by fright, rage,
grief, vehement desire, or any other passion, whether sudden, or attended
by long and painful sensations, the body manifestly suffers, and a
variety of diseases, as apoplexy, palsy, madness, fever, and hysterics,
may be the consequence.

               If this be true, an attention to the regulations of the mind is of
much more importance than physicians seem disposed to admit.

            

"An interesting little book, alike because of the knowledge which its author displays of his
subject, and of the simple style in which it is written. It is a handbook such as sportsmen
must have long desired."--Scotsman.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                             RECREATIONS
                                 OF
                         CHRISTOPHER NORTH.

         With Portrait of the Author in his Sporting Jacket.

               New Edition. Two Vols., crown 8vo, 8s.

"Welcome, right welcome, Christopher North; we cordially greet thee in thy new dress, thou
genial and hearty old man, whose 'Ambrosian Nights' have so often in imagination transported
us from solitude to the social circle, and whose vivid pictures of flood and fell, of loch
and glen, have carried us in thought from the smoke, din, and pent-up opulence of London, to
the rushing stream or tranquil tarn of those mountain-ranges."--Times.

                  *       *       *       *       *

              W. BLACKWOOD & SONS, EDINBURGH AND LONDON. Hyphenation has been
    standardised.