M. d'Orleans chose for this errand a man named Flotte, very skilful in intrigue, in which he
had, so to speak, been always brought up.  He went straight to Madrid, and one of his first
employments when he arrived there was to look for Renaut, the secretary just alluded to.  But
Renaut was nowhere to be found, nor could any news be heard of him.  Flotte stayed some time
in Madrid, and then went to the army, which was still in quarters.  He remained there three
weeks, idling from quarter to quarter, saluting the Marechal in command, who was much surprised
at his long stay, and who pressed him to return into France.  At last Flotte took leave of
the Marechal, asking him for an escort for himself and a commissary, with whom he meant to
go in company across the Pyrenees. Twenty dragoons were given him as escort, and he and the
commissary set out in a chaise.

They had not proceeded far before Flotte perceived that they were followed by other troops
besides those guarding them.  Flotte fearing that something was meant by this, slipped a pocket-book
into the hands of the commissary, requesting him to take care of it.  Shortly afterwards the
chaise was surrounded by troops, and stopped; the two travellers were made to alight.  The
commissary was ordered to give up the pocket-book, an order that he complied with very rapidly,
and Flotte was made prisoner, and escorted back to the spot he had just left.

The news of this occurrence reached the King on the 12th of July, by the ordinary courier from
Madrid.

The King informed M. d'Orleans of it, who, having learnt it by a private courier six days before,
affected nevertheless surprise, and said it was strange that one of his people should have
been thus arrested, and that as his Majesty was concerned, it was for him to demand the reason.
The King replied, that in fact the injury regarded him more than M. d'Orleans, and that he
would give orders to Torcy to write as was necessary to Spain.

It is not difficult to believe that such an explosion made a great noise, both in France and
Spain; but the noise it made at first was nothing to that which followed.  A cabal was formed
against Monsieur le Duc d'Orleans.  It was said that he had plotted to place himself upon the
Spanish throne, by driving out Philip V., under pretext of his incapacity, of the domination
of Madame des Ursins, and of the abandonment of the country by France; that he had treated
with Stanhope, commander of the English troops in Spain, and with whom he was known to be on
friendly terms, in order to be protected by the Archduke.  This was the report most widely
spread.  Others went further.  In these M. d'Orleans was accused of nothing less than of intending
to divorce himself from Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans, as having been married to her by force;
of intending to marry the sister of the Empress (widow of Charles II.), and of mounting with
her upon the Spanish throne; to marry Madame d'Argenton, as the Queen Dowager was sure to have
no children, and finally, to poison Madame d'Orleans.

Meanwhile the reply from Spain came not.  The King and Monseigneur treated M. d'Orleans with
a coldness which made him sorely ill at ease; the majority of the courtiers, following this
example, withdrew from him. He was left almost alone.

I learnt at last from M. d'Orleans how far he was deserving of public censure, and what had
given colouring to the reports spread against him. He admitted to me, that several of the Spanish
grandees had persuaded him that it was not possible the King of Spain could stand, and had
proposed to him to hasten his fall, and take his place; that he had rejected this proposition
with indignation, but had been induced to promise, that if Philip V. fell of himself, without
hope of rising, he would not object to mounting the vacant throne, believing that by so doing
he would be doing good to our King, by preserving Spain to his house.

As soon as I heard this, I advised him to make a clean breast of it to the King, and to ask
his pardon for having acted in this matter without his orders and without his knowledge.  He
thought my advice good, and acted upon it.  But the King was too much under the influence of
the enemies of M. d'Orleans, to listen favourably to what was said to him. The facts of the
case, too, were much against M. d'Orleans. It is he that makes me ill. I have no comfort while
he is here, making plots against me." If they two had only known the plot which had been made!
Hampstead thought it reasonable that the man should be sent away, if only because his presence
was disagreeable. Why should a man be kept in the house simply to produce annoyance? But there
must be the question of compensation. He did not think that £1000 was sufficient. Then the Marquis
was unusually difficult of persuasion in regard to money.

The whole Court cried out against M. d'Orleans; never was such an uproar heard.  He was accused
of plotting to overthrow the King of Spain, he, a Prince of the blood, and so closely allied
to the two crowns! Monseigneur, usually so plunged in apathy, roused himself to fury against
M. d'Orleans, and insisted upon nothing less than a criminal prosecution. He insisted so strongly
upon this, that the King at last consented that it should take place, and gave orders to the
chancellor to examine the forms requisite in such a case.  While the chancellor was about this
work, I went to see him one day, and represented to him so strongly, that M. d'Orleans' misdemeanour
did not concern us at all, and could only be judged before a Spanish tribunal, that the idea
of a criminal trial was altogether abandoned almost immediately after.  M. d'Orleans was allowed
to remain in peace.

Madame des Ursins and Madame de Maintenon had so far triumphed, however, that M. d'Orleans
found himself plunged in the deepest disgrace.  He was universally shunned.  Whenever he appeared,
people flew away, so that they might not be seen in communication with him.  His solitude was
so great, that for a whole month only one friend entered his house.  In the midst of this desertion,
he had no resource but debauchery, and the society of his mistress, Madame d'Argenton.  The
disorder and scandal of his life had for a long time offended the King, the Court, and the
public.  They now unhappily confirmed everybody in the bad opinion they had formed of him.
That the long disgrace he suffered continued to confirm him in his bad habits, and that it
explains to some extent his after-conduct, there can be no doubt.  But I must leave him now,
and return to other matters.

CHAPTER XLIX

But, meanwhile, a great change had taken place at Court.  Chamillart had committed the mistake
of allowing the advancement of D'Harcourt to the head of an army.  The poor man did not see
the danger; and when warned of it, thought his cleverness would preserve him.  Reports of his
fall had already begun to circulate, and D'Antin had been spoken of in his place. I warned
his daughter Dreux, the only one of the family to whom it was possible to speak with profit.
The mother, with little wit and knowledge of the Court, full of apparent confidence and sham
cunning, received all advice ill.  The, brothers were imbecile, the son was a child and a simpleton,
the two other daughters too light-headed.  I had often warned Madame de Dreux of the enmity
of the Duchesse de Bourgogne; and she had spoken to her on the subject.  The Princess had answered
very coldly that she was mistaken, that she had no such enmity.  At last I succeeded, in this
indirect way, in forcing Chamillart to speak to the King on the reports that were abroad; but
he did so in a half-and-half way, and committed the capital mistake of not naming the successor
which public rumour mentioned.  The King appeared touched, and gave him all sorts of assurances
of friendship, and made as if he liked him better than ever. I do not know if Chamillart was
then near his destruction, and whether this conversation set him up again; but from the day
it took place all reports died away, and the Court thought him perfectly re-established.

But his enemies continued to work against him.  Madame de Maintenon and the Duchesse de Bourgogne
abated not a jot in their enmity.  The Marechal d'Harcourt lost no opportunity of pulling him
to pieces.  One day, among others, he was declaiming violently against him at Madame de Maintenon's,
whom he knew he should thus please.  She asked him whom he would put in his place.  "M. Fagon,
Madame," he replied coldly.  She laughed, but said this was not a thing to joke about; but
he maintained seriously that the old doctor would make a much better minister than Chamillart,
for he had some intelligence, which would make up for his ignorance of many matters; but what
could be expected of a man who was ignorant and stupid too?  The cunning Norman knew well the
effect this strange parallel would have; and it is indeed inconceivable how damaging his sarcasm
proved.  A short time afterwards, D'Antin, wishing also to please, but more imprudent, insulted
the son of Chamillart so grossly, and abused the father so publicly, that he was obliged afterwards
to excuse himself.

The King held, for the first time in his life, a real council of war. He told the Duc de Bourgogne
of it, saying rather sharply: "Come, unless you prefer going to vespers."  The council lasted
nearly three hours; and was stormy.  The Marechals were freer in their, language than usual,
and complained of the ministers.  All fell upon Chamillart, who was accused, among other things,
of matters that concerned Desmarets, on whom, he finished by turning off the King's anger.
Chamillart defended himself with so much anger that his voice was heard by people outside.

But he had of late heaped fault on fault.  Besides setting Madame de Maintenon and the Duchesse
de Bourgogne against him, he rather wantonly irritated Monseigneur, at that time more than
ever under the government of Mademoiselle Choin.  The latter had asked him a favour, and had
been refused even with contempt.  Various advances at reconciliation she made were also repulsed
with contumely.  Yet every one, even the Duchesse de Bourgogne, crawled before this creature--the
favourite of the heir to the throne.  Madame de Maintenon actually caused the King to offer
her apartments at Versailles, which she refused, for fear of losing the liberty she enjoyed
at Meudon.  D'Antin, who saw all that was going on, became the soul of a conspiracy against
Chamillart.  It was infinitely well managed.  Everything moved in order and harmony--always
prudently, always knowingly.

The King, quietly attacked on all hands, was shaken; but he had many reasons for sticking to
Chamillart.  He was his own choice.  No minister had stood aside so completely, and allowed
the King to receive all the praise of whatever was done.  Though the King's reason way, therefore,
soon influenced, his heart was not so easily.  But Madame de Maintenon was not discouraged.
Monseigneur, urged by Mademoiselle Choin, had already spoken out to the King.  She laboured
to make him speak again; for, on the previous occasion, he had been listened to attentively. 

Had I made the promise I almost think I must have broken it. I did
not make it, and therefore I have no sin to confess. But I fear I
shall have done him a mischief with his father."

"And what did she
say, George?"

"Oh; just the old story, mother, I suppose.  There rose
in the Court, I know not what confused murmurs, the origin of which could not be pointed out,
publishing that either the State or Chamillart must perish; that already his ignorance had
brought the kingdom within an ace of destruction; that it was a miracle this destruction had
not yet come to pass; and that it would be madness to tempt Providence any longer.  Some did
not blush to abuse him; others praised his intentions, and spoke with moderation of faults
that many people reproached him bitterly with.  All admitted his rectitude, but maintained
that a successor of some kind or other was absolutely necessary.  Some, believing or trying
to persuade others that they carried friendship to as far a point as was possible, protested
that they should ever preserve this friendship, and would never forget the pleasure and the
services that they had received from Chamillart; but delicately confessed that they preferred
the interests of the State to their own personal advantage and the support they would lose;
that, even if Chamillart were their brother, they would sorrowfully admit the necessity of
removing him!  At last, nobody could understand either how such a man could ever have been
chosen, or how he could have remained so long in his place!  All his faults and all his ridicules
formed the staple of Court conversation.  If anybody referred to the great things he had done,
to the rapid gathering of armies after our disasters, people turned on their heels and walked
away.  Such were the presages of the fall of Chamillart.

The Marechal de Boufflers, who had never forgiven the causes that led to the loss of Lille,
joined in the attack on Chamillart; and assisted in exciting the King against him.  Chamillart
has since related to me that up to the last moment he had always been received equally graciously
by the King--that is, up to two days before his fall.  Then, indeed, he noticed that the King's
countenance was embarrassed; and felt inclined to ask if he was displeasing to him, and to
offer to retire.  Had he done so, he might, if we may judge from what transpired subsequently,
have remained in office.  But now Madame de Maintenon had come personally into the field, and,
believing herself sure of success, only attacked Chamillart.  What passed between her and the
King was quite private and never related; but there seems reason to believe that she did not
succeed without difficulty.

On Sunday morning, November 9, the King, on entering the Council of State, called the Duc de
Beauvilliers to him, and requested him to go in the afternoon and tell Chamillart that he was
obliged, for motives of public interest, to ask him to resign his office; but that, in order
to give him a mark of his esteem and satisfaction with his services, he continued his pension
of Minister--that is to say, twenty thousand francs--and added as much more, with one to his
son of twenty thousand francs likewise.  He added that he should have liked to see Chamillart,
but that at first it would grieve him too much: he was not to come till sent for; he might
live in Paris, and go where he liked.  The Duc de Beauvilliers did all he could to escape from
carrying so harsh a message, but could only obtain permission to let the Duc de Chevreuse accompany
him.

They went to Chamillart, and found him alone, working in his cabinet. The air of consternation
with which they entered, told the unfortunate Minister that something disagreeable had happened;
and without giving them time to speak, he said, with a serene and tranquil countenance, "What
is the matter, gentlemen?  If what you have to say concerns only me, you may speak: I have
long been prepared for everything."  This gentle firmness touched them still more.  They could
scarcely explain what they came about.  Chamillart listened without any change of countenance,
and said, with the same air and tone as at first: "The King is the master.  I have endeavoured
to serve him to the best of my ability.  I hope some one else will please him better, and be
more lucky."  He then asked if he had been forbidden to write to the King, and being told not,
he wrote a letter of respect and thanks, and sent it by the two Dukes, with a memoir which
he had just finished.  He also wrote to Madame de Maintenon.  He sent a verbal message to his
wife; and, without complaint, murmur, or sighs, got into his carriage, and drove to L'Etang.
Both then and afterwards he showed the greatest magnanimity. Every one went, from a sort of
fashion, to visit him.  When I went, the house looked as if a death had taken place; and it
was frightful to see, in the midst of cries and tears, the dead man walking, speaking with
a quiet, gentle air, and serene brow,--unconstrained, unaffected, attentive to every one, not
at all or scarcely different from what he was accustomed to be.

Chamillart, as I have said, had received permission to live at Paris, if he liked; but soon
afterwards he innocently gave umbrage to Madame de Maintenon, who was annoyed that his disgrace
was not followed by general abandonment.  She caused him to be threatened secretly, and he
prudently left Paris, and went far away, under pretence of seeking for an estate to buy.

Next day after the fall of Chamillart, it became known that the triumph of Madame de Maintenon
was completed, and that Voysin, her creature, was the succeeding Secretary of State.  This
Voysin had the one indispensable quality for admission into the counsels of Louis XIV.--not
a drop of noble blood in his veins.  He had married, in 1683, the daughter of Trudaine.  She
had a very agreeable countenance, without any affectation. She appeared simple and modest,
and occupied with her household and good works; but in reality, had sense, wit, cleverness,
above all, a natural insinuation, and the art of bringing things to pass without being perceived.
She kept with great tact a magnificent house.  It was she who received Madame de Maintenon
at Dinan, when the King was besieging Namur; and, as she had been instructed by M. de Luxembourg
in the way to please that lady, succeeded most effectually.  Among her arts was her modesty,
which led her prudently to avoid pressing herself on Madame de Maintenon, or showing herself
more than was absolutely necessary.  She was sometimes two whole days without seeing her. 
A trifle, luckily contrived, finished the conquest of Madame de Maintenon.  It happened that
the weather passed suddenly from excessive heat to a damp cold, which lasted a long time. Immediately,
an excellent dressing-gown, simple, and well lined, appeared in the corner of the chamber.
This present, by so much the more agreeable, as Madame de Maintenon had not brought any warm
clothing, touched her also by its suddenness, and by its simple appearance, as if of its own
accord.

In this way, the taste of Madame de Maintenon for Madame Voysin was formed and increased. 
Madame Voysin obtained an appointment for her husband, and coming to Paris, at last grew extremely
familiar with Madame de Maintenon.  Voysin himself had much need of the wife that Providence
had given him.  He was perfectly ignorant of everything but the duties of an Intendant.  He
was, moreover, rough and uncivil, as the courtiers soon found. He had to get leave at the Post
Office, but that Sir Boreas whom he talks about seems to have been very good-natured about
giving it. He asked him whether he would not take Mr. Crocker with
him to Italy; but that of course was a joke. The choice
was settled between the King and Madame de Maintenon after supper, the day of Chamillart's
fall.  Voysin was conducted to the King by Bloin, after having received the orders and instructions
of his benefactress.  In the evening of that day, the King found Madame Voysin with Madame
de Maintenon, and kissed her several times to please his lady.

Voysin's first experience of the duties of his office was unpleasant. He was foolish enough,
feeling his ignorance, to tell the King, that at the outset he should be obliged to leave everything
to his Majesty, but that when he knew better, he would take more on himself.  The King, to
whom Chamillart used himself to leave everything, was much offended by this language; and drawing
himself up, in the tone of a master, told Voysin to learn, once for all, that his duties were
to receive, and expedite orders, nothing else.  He then took the projects brought to him, examined
them, prescribed the measures he thought fit, and very stiffly sent away Voysin, who did not
know where he was, and had great want of his wife to set his head to rights, and of Madame
de Maintenon to give him completer lessons than she had yet been able to do.  Shortly afterwards
he was forbidden to send any orders without submitting them to the Marechal de Boufflers. 
He was supple, and sure of Madame de Maintenon, and through her of the Marechal, waited for
time to release him from this state of tutelage and showed nothing of his annoyance, especially
to Boufflers himself.

Events soon happened to alter the position of the Marechal de Boufflers.

Flanders, ever since the opening of the campaign, had been the principal object of attention.
Prince Eugene and Marlborough, joined together, continued their vast designs, and disdained
to hide them.  Their prodigious preparations spoke of sieges.  Shall I say that we desired
them, and that we thought of nothing but how to preserve, not use our army?

Tournai was the first place towards which the enemies directed their arms.  After a short resistance
it fell into their hands.  Villars, as I have said, was coriander in Flanders.  Boufflers feeling
that, in the position of affairs, such a post must weigh very heavily upon one man, and that
in case of his death there was no one to take his place, offered to go to assist him.  The
King, after some little hesitation, accepted this magnanimous offer, and Boufflers set out.
I say magnanimous offer, because Boufflers, loaded with honours and glory, might well have
hoped to pass the rest of his life in repose.  It was hardly possible, do what he might, that
he could add to his reputation; while, on the other hand, it was not unlikely that he might
be made answerable for the faults or shortcomings of others, and return to Paris stripped of
some of the laurels that adorned his brow.  But he thought only of the welfare of the State,
and pressed the King to allow him to depart to Flanders.  The King, as I have said, at last
consented.

The surprise was great in the army when he arrived there.  The general impression was that
he was the bearer of news of peace.  Villars received him with an air of joy and respect, and
at once showed every willingness to act in concert with him.  The two generals accordingly
worked harmoniously together, taking no steps without consulting each other, and showing great
deference for each other's opinions.  They were like one man.

After the fall of Tournai, our army took up position at Malplaquet, the right and the left
supported by two woods, with hedges and woods before the centre, so that the plain was, as
it were, cut in two.  Marlborough and Prince Eugene marched in their turn, fearing lest Villars
should embarrass them as they went towards Mons, which place they had resolved to besiege.
They sent on a large detachment of their army, under the command of the Prince of Hesse, to
watch ours.  He arrived in sight of the camp at Malpladuet at the same time that we entered
it, and was quickly warned of our existence by, three cannon shots that Villars, out of braggadocio,
fired by way of appeal to Marlborough and Prince Eugene. Some little firing took place this
day and the next, the 10th of September, but without doing much harm on either side.

Marlborough and Prince Eugene, warned of the perilous state in which the Prince of Hesse was
placed--he would have been lost if attacked hastened at once to join him, and arrived in the
middle of the morning of the 10th.  Their first care was to examine the position of our army,
and to do so, while waiting for their rear-guard, they employed a stratagem which succeeded
admirably.

They sent several officers, who had the look of subalterns, to our lines, and asked to be allowed
to speak to our officers.  Their request was granted.  Albergotti came down to them, and discoursed
with them a long time.  They pretended they came to see whether peace could not be arranged,
but they, in reality, spoke of little but compliments, which signified nothing.  They stayed
so long, under various pretexts, that at last we were obliged to threaten them in order to
get rid of them.  All this time a few of their best general officers on horseback, and a larger
number of engineers and designers on foot, profited by these ridiculous colloquies to put upon
paper drawings of our position, thus being able to see the best positions for their cannon,
and the best mode, in fact, in which all their disposition might be made.  We learnt this artifice
afterwards from the prisoners.

It was decided that evening to give us battle on the morrow, although the deputies of the States-General,
content with the advantages that had been already gained, and not liking to run the risk of
failure, were, opposed to an action taking place. I do hope, therefore, that you will not be
angry with either of us.

But yet I feel that I may have brought you into trouble with papa. I do not care in the least for
Lady Kingsbury, who has no right to interfere in the matter at all.  Villars, in the early part of the action, received
a wound which incapacitated him from duty.  All the burden of command fell upon Boufflers.
He bore it well; but after a time finding his army dispersed, his infantry overwhelmed, the
ground slipping from under his feet, he thought only of beating a good and honourable retreat.
He led away his army in such good order, that the enemy were unable to interfere with it in
the slightest degree.  During all the march, which lasted until night, we did not lose a hundred
stragglers, and carried off all the cannon with the exception of a few pieces.  The enemy passed
the night upon the battle-field, in the midst of twenty-five thousand dead, and marched towards
Mons the next evening.  They frankly admitted that in men killed and wounded, in general officers
and privates, in flags and standards, they had lost more than we.  The battle cost them, in
fact, seven lieutenant-generals, five other generals, about eighteen hundred officers killed
or wounded, and more than fifteen thousand men killed or rendered unfit for service. They openly
avowed, also, how much they had been surprised by the valour of the majority of our troops,
above all of the cavalry, and did not dissimulate that we should have gained the day, had we
been better led.

Why the Marechal Villars waited ten days to be attacked in a position so disadvantageous, instead
of at once marching upon the enemies and overcoming, as he might at first easily have done,
it is difficult to understand.  He threw all the blame upon his wound, although it was well
known that the fate of the day was decided long before he was hurt.

Although forced to retire, our men burned with eagerness to engage the enemies again.  Mons
had been laid siege to.  Boufflers tried to make the besiegers give up the undertaking.  But
his men were without bread and without pay: the subaltern officers were compelled to eat the
regulation bread, the general-officers were reduced to the most miserable shifts, and were
like the privates, without pay, oftentimes for seven or eight days running.  There was no meat
and no bread for the army.  The common soldiers were reduced to herbs and roots for all sustenance.
Under these circumstances it was found impossible to persevere in trying to save Mons.  Nothing
but subsistence could be thought of.

The Court had now become so accustomed to defeats that a battle lost as was Malplaquet seemed
half a victory.  Boufflers sent a courier to the King with an account of the event, and spoke
so favourably of Villars, that all the blame of the defeat fell upon himself.  Villars was
everywhere pitied and applauded, although he had lost an important battle: when it was in his
power to beat the enemies in detail, and render them unable to undertake the siege of Mons,
or any other siege. If Boufflers was indignant at this, he was still more indignant at what
happened afterwards.  In the first dispatch he sent to the King he promised to send another
as soon as possible giving full details, with propositions as to how the vacancies which had
occurred in the army might be filled up.  On the very evening he sent off his second dispatch,
he received intelligence that the King had already taken his dispositions with respect to these
vacancies, without having consulted him upon a single point.  This was the first reward Boufflers
received for the services he had just rendered, and that, too, from a King who had said in
public that without Boufflers all was lost, and that assuredly it was God who had inspired
him with the idea of going to the army.  From that time Boufflers fell into a disgrace from
which he never recovered.  He had the courage to appear as usual at the Court; but a worm was
gnawing him within and destroyed him.  Oftentimes he opened his heart to me without rashness,
and without passing the strict limits of his virtue; but the poniard was in his heart, and
neither time nor reflection could dull its edge.  He did nothing but languish afterwards, yet
without being confined to his bed or to his chamber, but did not live more than two years.
Villars, on the contrary, was in greater favour than ever.  He arrived at Court triumphant.
The King made him occupy an apartment at Versailles, so that his wound might be well attended to.

What a contrast!  What a difference between the services, the merit, the condition, the virtue,
the situation of these two men!  What inexhaustible funds of reflection.

CHAPTER L

I have described in its proper place the profound fall of M. le Duc d'Orleans and the neglect
in which he lived, out of all favour with the King, hated by Madame de Maintenon and Monseigneur,
and regarded with an unfavourable eye by the public, on account of the scandals of his private
life. It is not as though the suggestion were now made to you for the first time." Mr. Greenwood
got up from the edge of the chair, and again stood in the middle of the room. Lord Hampstead
felt himself constrained also to stand. "Have you any answer to make
to me?"  I knew it would be a bold
and dangerous game to play, to try to persuade him to separate himself from a woman he had
known and loved so long; but I determined to engage in it, nevertheless, and I looked about
for some one to assist me in this enterprise.  At once I cast my eyes upon the Marechal de
Besons, who for many long years had been the bosom friend of M. d'Orleans.  He applauded the
undertaking, but doubted, he said, its success; nevertheless he promised to aid me to the utmost
of his power, and, it will be seen, was as good as his word.  For some time I had no opportunity
of accosting M. d'Orleans, and was obliged to keep my project in abeyance, but I did not lose
sight of it; and when I saw my way clear, I took the matter in hand, determined to strain every
nerve in order to succeed.

