"The moon, yes!" said Jarvis. "You've missed my point. Mercury isn't visible! And Tweel knew
of Mercury because he placed the Moon at the third planet, not the second. If he didn't know
Mercury, he'd put the earth second, and Mars third, instead of fourth! See?"

"Humph!" said Harrison.

"Anyway," proceeded Jarvis, "I went on with my lesson. Things were going smoothly, and it looked
as if I could put the idea over. I pointed at the earth on my diagram, and then at myself,
and then, to clinch it, I pointed to myself and then to the earth itself shining bright green
almost at the zenith.

"Tweel set up such an excited clacking that I was certain he understood. He jumped up and down,
and suddenly he pointed at himself and then at the sky, and then at himself and at the sky
again. He pointed at his middle and then at Arcturus, at his head and then at Spica, at his
feet and then at half a dozen stars, while I just gaped at him. Then, all of a sudden, he gave
a tremendous leap. Man, what a hop! He shot straight up into the starlight, seventy-five feet
if an inch! I saw him silhouetted against the sky, saw him turn and come down at me head first,
and land smack on his beak like a javelin! There he stuck square in the center of my sun-circle
in the sand--a bull's eye!"

"Nuts!" observed the captain. "Plain nuts!"

"That's what I thought, too! I just stared at him open-mouthed while he pulled his head out
of the sand and stood up. Then I figured he'd missed my point, and I went through the whole
blamed rigamarole again, and it ended the same way, with Tweel on his nose in the middle of
my picture!"

"Maybe it's a religious rite," suggested Harrison.

"Maybe," said Jarvis dubiously. "Well, there we were. We could exchange ideas up to a certain
point, and then--blooey! Something in us was different, unrelated; I don't doubt that Tweel
thought me just as screwy as I thought him. Our minds simply looked at the world from different
viewpoints, and perhaps his viewpoint is as true as ours. But--we couldn't get together, that's
all. Yet, in spite of all difficulties, I liked Tweel, and I have a queer certainty that he
liked me."

"Nuts!" repeated the captain. "Just daffy!"

"Yeah? Wait and see. A couple of times I've thought that perhaps we--" He paused, and then
resumed his narrative. "Anyway, I finally gave it up, and got into my thermo-skin to sleep.
The fire hadn't kept me any too warm, but that damned sleeping bag did. Got stuffy five minutes
after I closed myself in. I opened it a little and bingo! Some eighty-below-zero air hit my
nose, and that's when I got this pleasant little frostbite to add to the bump I acquired during
the crash of my rocket.

"I don't know what Tweel made of my sleeping. He sat around, but when I woke up, he was gone.
I'd just crawled out of my bag, though, when I heard some twittering, and there he came, sailing
down from that three-story Thyle cliff to alight on his beak beside me. I pointed to myself
and toward the north, and he pointed at himself and toward the south, but when I loaded up
and started away, he came along.

"Man, how he traveled! A hundred and fifty feet at a jump, sailing through the air stretched
out like a spear, and landing on his beak. He seemed surprised at my plodding, but after a
few moments he fell in beside me, only every few minutes he'd go into one of his leaps, and
stick his nose into the sand a block ahead of me. Then he'd come shooting back at me; it made
me nervous at first to see that beak of his coming at me like a spear, but he always ended
in the sand at my side.

"So the two of us plugged along across the Mare Chronium. Same sort of place as this--same
crazy plants and same little green biopods growing in the sand, or crawling out of your way.
We talked--not that we understood each other, you know, but just for company. I sang songs,
and I suspect Tweel did too; at least, some of his trillings and twitterings had a subtle sort
of rhythm.

"Then, for variety, Tweel would display his smattering of English words. He'd point to an outcropping
and say 'rock,' and point to a pebble and say it again; or he'd touch my arm and say 'Tick,'
and then repeat it. He seemed terrifically amused that the same word meant the same thing twice
in succession, or that the same word could apply to two different objects. It set me wondering
if perhaps his language wasn't like the primitive speech of some earth people--you know, Captain,
like the Negritoes, for instance, who haven't any generic words. No word for food or water
or man--words for good food and bad food, or rain water and sea water, or strong man and weak
man--but no names for general classes. They're too primitive to understand that rain water
and sea water are just different aspects of the same thing. But that wasn't the case with Tweel;
it was just that we were somehow mysteriously different--our minds were alien to each other.
And yet--we liked each other!"

"Looney, that's all," remarked Harrison. "That's why you two were so fond of each other."

"Well, I like you!" countered Jarvis wickedly. "Anyway," he resumed, "don't get the idea that
there was anything screwy about Tweel. In fact, I'm not so sure but that he couldn't teach
our highly praised human intelligence a trick or two. Oh, he wasn't an intellectual superman,
I guess; but don't overlook the point that he managed to understand a little of my mental workings,
and I never even got a glimmering of his."

"Because he didn't have any!" suggested the captain, while Putz and Leroy blinked attentively.

"You can judge of that when I'm through," said Jarvis. "Well, we plugged along across the Mare
Chronium all that day, and all the next. Mare Chronium--Sea of Time! Say, I was willing to
agree with Schiaparelli's name by the end of that march! Just that grey, endless plain of weird
plants, and never a sign of any other life. It was so monotonous that I was even glad to see
the desert of Xanthus toward the evening of the second day.

"I was fair worn out, but Tweel seemed as fresh as ever, for all I never saw him drink or eat.
I think he could have crossed the Mare Chronium in a couple of hours with those block-long
nose dives of his, but he stuck along with me. I offered him some water once or twice; he took
the cup from me and sucked the liquid into his beak, and then carefully squirted it all back
into the cup and gravely returned it.

"Just as we sighted Xanthus, or the cliffs that bounded it, one of those nasty sand clouds
blew along, not as bad as the one we had here, but mean to travel against. 1876

XXIII

The skies are strown with stars, The streets are fresh with dew A
thin moon drifts to westward, The night is hushed and cheerful.

My thought is quick with you.

Near windows gleam and laugh, And far away a train Clanks glowing through the stillness: A great
content's in all things, And life is not in vain.

1877

XXIV

The full sea rolls and thunders In glory and in glee. O, bury me not in the senseless earth But in
the living sea!

Ay, bury me where it surges A thousand miles from shore, And in its brotherly unrest I'll range
for evermore.

1876

XXV

In the year that's come and gone, love,
his flying feather Stooping slowly, gave us heart, and bade us walk
together. In the year that's coming on, though many a troth be broken,
We at least will not forget aught that love hath spoken.

In the year
that's come and gone, dear, we wove a tether All of gracious words
and thoughts, binding two together. In the year that's coming on with
its wealth of roses We shall weave it stronger, yet, ere the circle
closes.

In the year that's come and gone, in the golden weather,
Sweet, my sweet, we swore to keep the watch of life together. In the
year that's coming on, rich in joy and sorrow, We shall light our
lamp, and wait life's mysterious morrow.

1877

XXVI

In the placid
summer midnight, Under the drowsy sky, I seem to hear in the stillness
The moths go glimmering by.

One by one from the windows The lights
have all been sped. Never a blind looks conscious - The street is
asleep in bed! Not that
I'd seen a single sign of menace, except the rope-armed black thing that had trapped Tweel,
and apparently that didn't prowl at all, but lured its victims within reach. It couldn't lure
me while I slept, especially as Tweel didn't seem to sleep at all, but simply sat patiently
around all night. I wondered how the creature had managed to trap Tweel, but there wasn't any
way of asking him. I found that out too, later; it's devilish!

"However, we were ambling around the base of the Xanthus barrier looking for an easy spot to
climb. At least, I was. Tweel could have leaped it easily, for the cliffs were lower than Thyle--perhaps
sixty feet. I found a place and started up, swearing at the water tank strapped to my back--it
didn't bother me except when climbing--and suddenly I heard a sound that I thought I recognized!

"You know how deceptive sounds are in this thin air. A shot sounds like the pop of a cork.
But this sound was the drone of a rocket, and sure enough, there went our second auxiliary
about ten miles to westward, between me and the sunset!"

"Vas me!" said Putz. "I hunt for you."

"Yeah; I knew that, but what good did it do me? I hung on to the cliff and yelled and waved
with one hand. Tweel saw it too, and set up a trilling and twittering, leaping to the top of
the barrier and then high into the air. And while I watched, the machine droned on into the
shadows to the south.

"I scrambled to the top of the cliff. Tweel was still pointing and trilling excitedly, shooting
up toward the sky and coming down head-on to stick upside down on his beak in the sand. I pointed
toward the south and at myself, and he said, 'Yes--Yes--Yes'; but somehow I gathered that he
thought the flying thing was a relative of mine, probably a parent. Perhaps I did his intellect
an injustice; I think now that I did.

"I was bitterly disappointed by the failure to attract attention. I pulled out my thermo-skin
bag and crawled into it, as the night chill was already apparent. Tweel stuck his beak into
the sand and drew up his legs and arms and looked for all the world like one of those leafless
shrubs out there. I think he stayed that way all night."

"Protective mimicry!" ejaculated Leroy. "See? He is desert creature!"

"In the morning," resumed Jarvis, "we started off again. We hadn't gone a hundred yards into
Xanthus when I saw something queer! This is one thing Putz didn't photograph, I'll wager!

"There was a line of little pyramids--tiny ones, not more than six inches high, stretching
across Xanthus as far as I could see! Little buildings made of pygmy bricks, they were, hollow
inside and truncated, or at least broken at the top and empty. I pointed at them and said 'What?'
to Tweel, but he gave some negative twitters to indicate, I suppose, that he didn't know. So
off we went, following the row of pyramids because they ran north, and I was going north.

"Man, we trailed that line for hours! After a while, I noticed another queer thing: they were
getting larger. Same number of bricks in each one, but the bricks were larger.

"By noon they were shoulder high. I looked into a couple--all just the same, broken at the
top and empty. I examined a brick or two as well; they were silica, and old as creation itself!"

"How you know?" asked Leroy.

"They were weathered--edges rounded. Silica doesn't weather easily even on earth, and in this
climate--!"

"How old you think?"

"Fifty thousand--a hundred thousand years. How can I tell? The little ones we saw in the morning
were older--perhaps ten times as old. Crumbling. How old would that make them? Half a million
years? Who knows?" Jarvis paused a moment. "Well," he resumed, "we followed the line. Tweel
pointed at them and said 'rock' once or twice, but he'd done that many times before. Besides,
he was more or less right about these.

"I tried questioning him. I pointed at a pyramid and asked 'People?' and indicated the two
of us. He set up a negative sort of clucking and said, 'No, no, no. No one-one-two. No two-two-four,'
meanwhile rubbing his stomach. I just stared at him and he went through the business again.
'No one-one-two. No two-two-four.' I just gaped at him."

"That proves it!" exclaimed Harrison. "Nuts!"

"You think so?" queried Jarvis sardonically. "Well, I figured it out different! 'No one-one-two!'
You don't get it, of course, do you?"

"Nope--nor do you!"

"I think I do! Tweel was using the few English words he knew to put over a very complex idea. O
gracious eve!

O happy star, Still-flashing, glowing, sinking! - Who lives of lovers
near or far So glad as I in thinking?

The gallant world is warm and green, For May fulfils November. When lights and leaves and loves
have been, Sweet, will you remember? Get it?"

"Huh! I'll be damned!"

"You probably will."

"Why," put in Leroy, "he rub his belly?"

"Why? Because, my dear biologist, that's where his brains are! Not in his tiny head--in his
middle!"

"C'est impossible!"

"Not on Mars, it isn't! This flora and fauna aren't earthly; your biopods prove that!" Jarvis
grinned and took up his narrative. "Anyway, we plugged along across Xanthus and in about the
middle of the afternoon, something else queer happened. The pyramids ended."

"Ended!"

"Yeah; the queer part was that the last one--and now they were ten-footers--was capped! See?
Whatever built it was still inside; we'd trailed 'em from their half-million-year-old origin
to the present.

"Tweel and I noticed it about the same time. I yanked out my automatic (I had a clip of Boland
explosive bullets in it) and Tweel, quick as a sleight-of-hand trick, snapped a queer little
glass revolver out of his bag. It was much like our weapons, except that the grip was larger
to accommodate his four-taloned hand. And we held our weapons ready while we sneaked up along
the lines of empty pyramids.

"Tweel saw the movement first. The top tiers of bricks were heaving, shaking, and suddenly
slid down the sides with a thin crash. And then--something--something was coming out!

"A long, silvery-grey arm appeared, dragging after it an armored body. Armored, I mean, with
scales, silver-grey and dull-shining. The arm heaved the body out of the hole; the beast crashed
to the sand.

"It was a nondescript creature--body like a big grey cask, arm and a sort of mouth-hole at
one end; stiff, pointed tail at the other--and that's all. No other limbs, no eyes, ears, nose--nothing!
The thing dragged itself a few yards, inserted its pointed tail in the sand, pushed itself
upright, and just sat.

"Tweel and I watched it for ten minutes before it moved. Then, with a creaking and rustling
like--oh, like crumpling stiff paper--its arm moved to the mouth-hole and out came a brick!
The arm placed the brick carefully on the ground, and the thing was still again.

"Another ten minutes--another brick. Just one of Nature's bricklayers. I was about to slip
away and move on when Tweel pointed at the thing and said 'rock'! I went 'huh?' and he said
it again. Then, to the accompaniment of some of his trilling, he said, 'No--no--,' and gave
two or three whistling breaths.

"Well, I got his meaning, for a wonder! I said, 'No breath?' and demonstrated the word. Tweel
was ecstatic; he said, 'Yes, yes, yes! No, no, no breet!' Then he gave a leap and sailed out
to land on his nose about one pace from the monster!

"I was startled, you can imagine! The emigrants being now, from sad experience, sensible of difficulties
inseparable from their circumstances, began to murmur against the proprietors, and to curse
the day they left their native land, to starve in a wilderness. While they gathered oysters for subsistence
with one hand, they were obliged to carry their muskets for self-defence
in the other.

A great gun had been given to Florence O'Sullivan, which he placed
on an island situate at the mouth of the harbour, to alarm the town
in cases of invasion from the Spaniards.

 There must have been pure silicon in
the sand, and it lived on that. Get it? We, and Tweel, and those plants out there, and even
the biopods are carbon life; this thing lived by a different set of chemical reactions. It
was silicon life!"

"La vie silicieuse!" shouted Leroy. "I have suspect, and now it is proof! I must go see! Il
faut que je--"

"All right! All right!" said Jarvis. "You can go see. Anyhow, there the thing was, alive and
yet not alive, moving every ten minutes, and then only to remove a brick. Those bricks were
its waste matter. See, Frenchy? We're carbon, and our waste is carbon dioxide, and this thing
is silicon, and its waste is silicon dioxide--silica. But silica is a solid, hence the bricks.
And it builds itself in, and when it is covered, it moves over to a fresh place to start over.
No wonder it creaked! A living creature half a million years old!"

"How you know how old?" Leroy was frantic.

"We trailed its pyramids from the beginning, didn't we? If this weren't the original pyramid
builder, the series would have ended somewhere before we found him, wouldn't it?--ended and
started over with the small ones. That's simple enough, isn't it?

"But he reproduces, or tries to. Before the third brick came out, there was a little rustle
and out popped a whole stream of those little crystal balls. They're his spores, or eggs, or
seeds--call 'em what you want. They went bouncing by across Xanthus just as they'd bounced
by us back in the Mare Chronium. I've a hunch how they work, too--this is for your information,
Leroy. I think the crystal shell of silica is no more than a protective covering, like an eggshell,
and that the active principle is the smell inside. It's some sort of gas that attacks silicon,
and if the shell is broken near a supply of that element, some reaction starts that ultimately
develops into a beast like that one."

"You should try!" exclaimed the little Frenchman. "We must break one to see!"

"Yeah? Well, I did. I smashed a couple against the sand. Would you like to come back in about
ten thousand years to see if I planted some pyramid monsters? You'd most likely be able to
tell by that time!" Jarvis paused and drew a deep breath. "Lord! That queer creature! Do you
picture it? Blind, deaf, nerveless, brainless--just a mechanism, and yet--immortal! Bound to
go on making bricks, building pyramids, as long as silicon and oxygen exist, and even afterwards
it'll just stop. It won't be dead. If the accidents of a million years bring it its food again,
there it'll be, ready to run again, while brains and civilizations are part of the past. A
queer beast--yet I met a stranger one!"

"If you did, it must have been in your dreams!" growled Harrison.

"You're right!" said Jarvis soberly. "In a way, you're right. The dream-beast! That's the best
name for it--and it's the most fiendish, terrifying creation one could imagine! More dangerous
than a lion, more insidious than a snake!"

"Tell me!" begged Leroy. "I must go see!"

"Not this devil!" He paused again. "Well," he resumed, "Tweel and I left the pyramid creature
and plowed along through Xanthus. I was tired and a little disheartened by Putz's failure to
pick me up, and Tweel's trilling got on my nerves, as did his flying nosedives. So I just strode
along without a word, hour after hour across that monotonous desert.

"Toward mid-afternoon we came in sight of a low dark line on the horizon. I knew what it was.
It was a canal; I'd crossed it in the rocket and it meant that we were just one-third of the
way across Xanthus. Pleasant thought, wasn't it? And still, I was keeping up to schedule.

"We approached the canal slowly; I remembered that this one was bordered by a wide fringe of
vegetation and that Mud-heap City was on it.

"I was tired, as I said. I kept thinking of a good hot meal, and then from that I jumped to
reflections of how nice and home-like even Borneo would seem after this crazy planet, and from
that, to thoughts of little old New York, and then to thinking about a girl I know there--Fancy
Long. Know her?"

"Vision entertainer," said Harrison. "I've tuned her in. Nice blonde--dances and sings on the
Yerba Mate hour."

"That's her," said Jarvis ungrammatically. "I know her pretty well--just friends, get me?--though
she came down to see us off in the Ares. Well, I was thinking about her, feeling pretty lonesome,
and all the time we were approaching that line of rubbery plants.

"And then--I said, 'What 'n Hell!' and stared. And there she was--Fancy Long, standing plain
as day under one of those crack-brained trees, and smiling and waving just the way I remembered
her when we left!"

"Now you're nuts, too!" observed the captain.

"Boy, I almost agreed with you! I stared and pinched myself and closed my eyes and then stared
again--and every time, there was Fancy Long smiling and waving! Tweel saw something, too; he
was trilling and clucking away, but I scarcely heard him. Those inhabitants, like beasts of prey,
traverse the forest, and while they neither encroach on their neighbours
territories, nor are at war with another tribe, enjoy freedom in the
most extensive sense of the word.

In stature they are of a middle size, neither so tall nor yet so low as some Europeans. To appearance
they are strong and well made; yet they are totally unqualified for that heavy burden or tedious
labour which the vigorous and firm nerves of Europeans enable them to undergo.


"She smiled and waved, and waved and smiled, and I stood there dumb as Leroy, while Tweel squeaked
and chattered. I knew it couldn't be real, yet--there she was!

"Finally I said, 'Fancy! Fancy Long!' She just kept on smiling and waving, but looking as real
as if I hadn't left her thirty-seven million miles away.

"Tweel had his glass pistol out, pointing it at her. I grabbed his arm, but he tried to push
me away. He pointed at her and said, 'No breet! No breet!' and I understood that he meant that
the Fancy Long thing wasn't alive. Man, my head was whirling!

"Still, it gave me the jitters to see him pointing his weapon at her. I don't know why I stood
there watching him take careful aim, but I did. Then he squeezed the handle of his weapon;
there was a little puff of steam, and Fancy Long was gone! And in her place was one of those
writhing, black, rope-armed horrors like the one I'd saved Tweel from!

"The dream-beast! I stood there dizzy, watching it die while Tweel trilled and whistled. Finally
he touched my arm, pointed at the twisting thing, and said, 'You one-one-two, he one-one-two.'
After he'd repeated it eight or ten times, I got it. Do any of you?"

"Oui!" shrilled Leroy. "Moi--je le comprends! He mean you think of something, the beast he
know, and you see it! Un chien--a hungry dog, he would see the big bone with meat! Or smell
it--not?"

"Right!" said Jarvis. "The dream-beast uses its victim's longings and desires to trap its prey.
The bird at nesting season would see its mate, the fox, prowling for its own prey, would see
a helpless rabbit!"

"How he do?" queried Leroy.

"How do I know? How does a snake back on earth charm a bird into its very jaws? The curtain
falls, the play is played: The Beggar packs beside the Beau; The Monarch troops, and troops
the Maid; The Thunder huddles with the Snow. Where are the revellers high and low? The clashing
swords? The lover's call? The dancers gleaming row on row? You might see me--I might see one of you--and back of it may be nothing but another
of those black horrors!"

"How'd your friend know?" asked the captain abruptly.

"Tweel? I wonder! Perhaps he was thinking of something that couldn't possibly have interested
me, and when I started to run, he realized that I saw something different and was warned. Or
perhaps the dream-beast can only project a single vision, and Tweel saw what I saw--or nothing.
I couldn't ask him. But it's just another proof that his intelligence is equal to ours or greater."

"He's daffy, I tell you!" said Harrison. "What makes you think his intellect ranks with the human?"

"Plenty of things! First, the pyramid-beast. He hadn't seen one before; he said as much. Yet
he recognized it as a dead-alive automaton of silicon."

"He could have heard of it," objected Harrison. "He lives around here, you know."

"Well how about the language? I couldn't pick up a single idea of his and he learned six or
seven words of mine. And do you realize what complex ideas he put over with no more than those
six or seven words? The pyramid-monster--the dream-beast! In a single phrase he told me that
one was a harmless automaton and the other a deadly hypnotist. What about that?"

"Huh!" said the captain.

"Huh if you wish! Could you have done it knowing only six words of English? [Sidenote] And from
the Indians.

To enhance their distress, they were surrounded with tribes of warlike
savages, who viewed them with a jealous eye, and were by no means
pleased at the encroachments made on their natural possessions.

 The point I'm making is that Tweel and his race are worthy of our friendship. Somewhere
on Mars--and you'll find I'm right--is a civilization and culture equal to ours, and maybe
more than equal. And communication is possible between them and us; Tweel proves that. It may
take years of patient trial, for their minds are alien, but less alien than the next minds
we encountered--if they are minds."

"The next ones? What next ones?"

"The people of the mud cities along the canals." Jarvis frowned, then resumed his narrative.
"I thought the dream-beast and the silicon-monster were the strangest beings conceivable, but
I was wrong. These creatures are still more alien, less understandable than either and far
less comprehensible than Tweel, with whom friendship is possible, and even, by patience and
concentration, the exchange of ideas.

"Well," he continued, "we left the dream-beast dying, dragging itself back into its hole, and
we moved toward the canal. There was a carpet of that queer walking-grass scampering out of
our way, and when we reached the bank, there was a yellow trickle of water flowing. The mound
city I'd noticed from the rocket was a mile or so to the right and I was curious enough to
want to take a look at it.

"It had seemed deserted from my previous glimpse of it, and if any creatures were lurking in
it--well, Tweel and I were both armed. And by the way, that crystal weapon of Tweel's was an
interesting device; I took a look at it after the dream-beast episode. It fired a little glass
splinter, poisoned, I suppose, and I guess it held at least a hundred of 'em to a load. The
propellent was steam--just plain steam!"

"Shteam!" echoed Putz. "From vot come, shteam?"

