"He has betrayed the Vicomte?" I half inquired, half asserted.

Castelroux nodded. "He has obtained a warrant for his apprehension from the Keeper of the Seals,
and is gone to execute it. In the course of a few days Lavedan will be in danger of being no
more than a name. This Saint-Eustache is driving a brisk trade, by God, and some fine prizes
have already fallen to his lot. But if you add them all together, they are not likely to yield
as much as this his latest expedition. Unless you intervene, Bardelys, the Vicomte de Lavedan
is doomed and his family houseless."

"I will intervene," I cried. "By God, I will! And as for Saint-Eustache--he was born under
a propitious star, indeed, if he escapes the gallows. He little dreams that I am still to be
reckoned with. There, Castelroux, I will start for Lavedan at once."

Already I was striding to the door, when the Gascon called me back.

"What good will that do?" he asked. "Were it not better first to return to Toulouse and obtain
a counter-warrant from the King?"

There was wisdom in his words--much wisdom. But my blood was afire, and I was in too hot a
haste to reason.

"Return to Toulouse?" I echoed scornfully. "A waste of time, Captain. No, I will go straight
to Lavedan. I need no counter-warrant. I know too much of this Chevalier's affairs, and my
very presence should be enough to stay his hand. He is as foul a traitor as you'll find in
France; but for the moment God bless him for a very opportune knave. Gilles!" I called, throwing
wide the door. "Gilles!"

"Monseigneur," he answered, hastening to me.

"Put back the carriages and saddle me a horse," I commanded. "And bid your fellows mount at
once and await me in the courtyard. We are not going to Beaugency, Gilles. We ride north--to
Lavedan."

CHAPTER XVIII. SAINT-EUSTACHE IS OBSTINATE

On the occasion of my first visit to Lavedan I had disregarded--or, rather, Fate had contrived
that I should disregard--Chatellerault's suggestion that I should go with all the panoply of
power--with my followers, my liveries, and my equipages to compose the magnificence all France
had come to associate with my name, and thus dazzle by my brilliant lustre the lady I was come
to win. As you may remember, I had crept into the chateau like a thief in the night,--wounded,
bedraggled, and of miserable aspect, seeking to provoke compassion rather than admiration.

Not so now that I made my second visit. I availed myself of all the splendour to which I owed
my title of "Magnificent," and rode into the courtyard of the Chateau de Lavedan preceded by
twenty well-mounted knaves wearing the gorgeous Saint-Pol liveries of scarlet and gold, with
the Bardelys escutcheon broidered on the breasts of their doublets--on a field or a bar azure
surcharged by three lilies of the field. They were armed with swords and musketoons, and had
more the air of a royal bodyguard than of a company of attendant servants.

Our coming was in a way well timed. I doubt if we could have stayed the execution of Saint-Eustache's
warrant even had we arrived earlier. An Artificial Bleaching Agent. While the sun's rays are effective
as a bleaching agent, the process is slow; moreover, it would be
impossible to expose to the sun's rays the vast quantity of fabrics
used in the civilized world of to-day, and the huge and numerous bolts
of material which daily come from our looms and factories must therefore
be whitened by artificial means.

The substance almost universally used as a rapid artificial bleaching agent is chlorine, best
known to us as a constituent of common salt. Chlorine is never free in nature, but is found in
combination with other substances, as, for example, in combination with sodium in salt, or
with hydrogen in hydrochloric acid.

The best laboratory method of securing free chlorine is to heat in a water bath a mixture of
hydrochloric acid and manganese dioxide, a compound containing one
part of manganese and two parts of oxygen.

The heat causes the manganese dioxide to give up its oxygen, which immediately combines with
the hydrogen of the hydrochloric acid and forms water. The manganese itself combines with part
of the chlorine originally in the acid, but not with all. There is thus some free chlorine left
over from the acid, and this passes off as a gas and can be collected, as in Figure 158. Free
chlorine is heavier than air, and hence when it leaves the exit tube it settles at the bottom
of the jar, displacing the air, and finally filling the bottle.

Chlorine is a very active substance and combines readily with most substances, but especially with
hydrogen; if chlorine comes in contact with steam, it abstracts the hydrogen and unites with
it to form hydrochloric acid, but it leaves the oxygen free and uncombined.
This tendency of chlorine to combine with hydrogen makes it valuable
as a bleaching agent.
This resulted in the couples dividing at the gateway, one going to the left and one to the
right, so that as they came they spread themselves in a crescent, and drawing rein, they faced
forward, confronting and half surrounding the Chevalier's company.

As each couple appeared, the curiosity--the uneasiness, probably--of Saint-Eustache and his
men, had increased, and their expectancy was on tiptoe to see what lord it was went abroad
with such regal pomp, when I appeared in the gateway and advanced at the trot into the middle
of the quadrangle. There I drew rein and doffed my hat to them as they stood, open-mouthed
and gaping one and all. If it was a theatrical display, a parade worthy of a tilt-ground, it
was yet a noble and imposing advent, and their gaping told me that it was not without effect.
The men looked uneasily at the Chevalier; the Chevalier looked uneasily at his men; mademoiselle,
very pale, lowered her eyes and pressed her lips yet more tightly; the Vicomtesse uttered an
oath of astonishment; whilst Lavedan, too dignified to manifest surprise, greeted me with a
sober bow.

Behind them on the steps I caught sight of a group of domestics, old Anatole standing slightly
in advance of his fellows, and wondering, no doubt, whether this were, indeed, the bedraggled
Lesperon of a little while ago--for if I had thought of pomp in the display of my lacqueys,
no less had I considered it in the decking of my own person. Without any of the ribbons and
fopperies that mark the coxcomb, yet was I clad, plumed, and armed with a magnificence such
as I'll swear had not been seen within the grey walls of that old castle in the lifetime of
any of those that were now present.

Gilles leapt from his horse as I drew rein, and hastened to hold my stirrup, with a murmured
"Monsieur," which title drew a fresh astonishment into the eyes of the beholders.

I advanced leisurely towards Saint-Eustache, and addressed him with such condescension as I
might a groom, to impress and quell a man of this type your best weapon is the arrogance that
a nobler spirit would resent.

"A world of odd meetings this, Saint-Eustache," I smiled disdainfully. "A world of strange
comings and goings, and of strange transformations. The last time we were here we stood mutually
as guests of Monsieur le Vicomte; at present you appear to be officiating as a--a tipstaff."

"Monsieur!" He coloured, and he uttered the word in accents of awakening resentment. I looked
into his eyes, coldly, impassively, as if waiting to hear what he might have to add, and so
I stayed until his glance fell and his spirit was frozen in him. He knew me, and he knew how
much I was to be feared. A word from me to the King might send him to the wheel. It was upon
this I played. Presently, as his eye fell, "Is your business with me, Monsieur de Bardelys?"
he asked, and at that utterance of my name there was a commotion on the steps, whilst the Vicomte
started, and his eyes frowned upon me, and the Vicomtesse looked up suddenly to scan me with
a fresh interest. She beheld at last in the flesh the gentleman who had played so notorious
a part, ten years ago, in that scandal connected with the Duchesse de Bourgogne, of which she
never tired of reciting the details. And think that she had sat at table with him day by day
and been unconscious of that momentous fact! Such, I make no doubt, was what passed through
her mind at the moment, and, to judge from her expression, I should say that the excitement
of beholding the Magnificent Bardelys had for the nonce eclipsed beholding even her husband's
condition and the imminent sequestration of Lavedan.

"My business is with you, Chevalier," said I. "It relates to your mission here."

His jaw fell. "You wish--?"

"To desire you to withdraw your men and quit Lavedan at once, abandoning the execution of your
warrant."

He flashed me a look of impotent hate. "You know of the existence of my warrant, Monsieur de
Bardelys, and you must therefore realize that a royal mandate alone can exempt me from delivering
Monsieur de Lavedan to the Keeper of the Seals."

"My only warrant," I answered, somewhat baffled, but far from abandoning hope, "is my word.
You shall say to the Garde des Sceaux that you have done this upon the authority of the Marquis
de Bardelys, and you have my promise that His Majesty shall confirm my action."

In saying that I said too much, as I was quickly to realize.

"His Majesty will confirm it, monsieur?" he said interrogatively, and he shook his head. "That
is a risk I dare not run. My warrant sets me under imperative obligations which I must discharge--you
will see the justice of what I state."

His tone was all humility, all subservience, nevertheless it was firm to the point of being
hard. But my last card, the card upon which I was depending, was yet to be played.

"Will you do me the honour to step aside with me, Chevalier?" I commanded rather than besought.

"At your service, sir," said he; and I drew him out of earshot of those others.

"Now, Saint-Eustache, we can talk," said I, with an abrupt change of manner from the coldly
arrogant to the coldly menacing. "I marvel greatly at your temerity in pursuing this Iscariot
business after learning who I am, at Toulouse two nights ago."

He clenched his hands, and his weak face hardened.

"I would beg you to consider your expressions, monsieur, and to control them," said he in a
thick voice.

I vouchsafed him a stare of freezing amazement. "You will no doubt remember in what capacity
I find you employed. Nay, keep your hands still, Saint-Eustache. I don't fight catchpolls,
and if you give me trouble my men are yonder." And I jerked my thumb over my shoulder. "And
now to business. I am not minded to talk all day. I was saying that I marvel at your temerity,
and more particularly at your having laid information against Monsieur de Lavedan, and having
come here to arrest him, knowing, as you must know, that I am interested in the Vicomte."

"I have heard of that interest, monsieur," said he, with a sneer for which I could have struck him.

"This act of yours," I pursued, ignoring his interpolation, "savours very much of flying in
the face of Destiny. It almost seems to me as if you were defying me."

His lip trembled, and his eyes shunned my glance.

"Indeed--indeed, monsieur--" he was protesting, when I cut him short.

"You cannot be so great a fool but that you must realize that if I tell the King what I know
of you, you will be stripped of your ill-gotten gains, and broken on the wheel for a double
traitor--a betrayer of your fellow-rebels."

"But you will not do that, monsieur?" he cried. "It would be unworthy in you."

At that I laughed in his face. "Heart of God! Are you to be what you please, and do you still
expect that men shall be nice in dealing with you? I would do this thing, and, by my faith,
Monsieur de Eustache, I will do it, if you compel me!"

He reddened and moved his foot uneasily. Perhaps I did not take the best way with him, after
all. I might have confined myself to sowing fear in his heart; that alone might have had the
effect I desired; by visiting upon him at the same time the insults I could not repress, I
may have aroused his resistance, and excited his desire above all else to thwart me.

"What do you want of me?" he demanded, with a sudden arrogance which almost cast mine into
the shade.

"I want you," said I, deeming the time ripe to make a plain tale of it, "to withdraw your men,
and to ride back to Toulouse without Monsieur de Lavedan, there to confess to the Keeper of
the Seals that your suspicions were unfounded, and that you have culled evidence that the Vicomte
has had no relations with Monsieur the King's brother."

He looked at me in amazement--amusedly, almost.

"A likely story that to bear to the astute gentlemen in Toulouse," said he.

"Aye, ma foi, a most likely story," said I. "When they come to consider the profit that you
are losing by not apprehending the Vicomte, and can think of none that you are making, they
will have little difficulty in believing you."

"But what of this evidence you refer to?"

"You have, I take it, discovered no incriminating evidence--no documents that will tell against
the Vicomte?"

"No, monsieur, it is true that I have not--"

He stopped and bit his lip, my smile making him aware of his indiscretion.

"Very well, then, you must invent some evidence to prove that he was in no way, associated
with the rebellion."

"Monsieur de Bardelys," said he very insolently, "we waste time in idle words. If you think
that I will imperil my neck for the sake of serving you or the Vicomte, you are most prodigiously
at fault."

"I have never thought so. But I have thought that you might be induced to imperil your neck--as
you have it--for its own sake, and to the end that you might save it."

He moved away. "Monsieur, you talk in vain. You have no royal warrant to supersede mine. Do
what you will when you come to Toulouse," and he smiled darkly. "Meanwhile, the Vicomte goes
with me."

"You have no evidence against him!" I cried, scarce believing that he would dare to defy me
and that I had failed.

"I have the evidence of my word. I am ready to swear to what I know--that, whilst I was here
at Lavedan, some weeks ago, I discovered his connection with the rebels."

"And what think you, miserable fool, shall your word weigh against mine?" I cried. "Never fear,
Monsieur le Chevalier, I shall be in Toulouse to give you the lie by showing that your word
is a word to which no man may attach faith, and by exposing to the King your past conduct.
If you think that, after I have spoken, King Louis whom they name the just will suffer the
trial of the Vicomte to go further on your instigation, or if you think that you will be able
to slip your own neck from the noose I shall have set about it, you are an infinitely greater
fool than I deem you."

He stood and looked at me over his shoulder, his face crimson, and his brows black as a thundercloud.

"All this may betide when you come to Toulouse, Monsieur de Bardelys," said he darkly, "but
from here to Toulouse it is a matter of some twenty leagues."

With that, he turned on his heel and left me, baffled and angry, to puzzle out the inner meaning
of his parting words.

He gave his men the order to mount, and bade Monsieur de Lavedan enter the coach, whereupon
Gilles shot me a glance of inquiry. For a second, as I stepped slowly after the Chevalier,
I was minded to try armed resistance, and to convert that grey courtyard into a shambles. Then
I saw betimes the futility of such a step, and I shrugged my shoulders in answer to my servant's
glance.

I would have spoken to the Vicomte ere he departed, but I was too deeply chagrined and humiliated
by my defeat. So much so that I had no room in my thoughts even for the very natural conjecture
of what Lavedan must be thinking of me. I repented me then of my rashness in coming to Lavedan
without having seen the King--as Castelroux had counselled me. I had come indulging vain dreams
of a splendid overthrow of Saint-Eustache. I had thought to shine heroically in Mademoiselle's
eyes, and thus I had hoped that both gratitude for having saved her father and admiration at
the manner in which I had achieved it would predispose her to grant me a hearing in which I
might plead my rehabilitation. Once that were accorded me, I did not doubt I should prevail.

Now my dream was all dispelled, and my pride had suffered just such a humiliating fall as the
moralists tell us pride must ever suffer. There seemed little left me but to go hence with
lambent tail, like a dog that has been whipped--my dazzling escort become a mockery but that
it served the more loudly to advertise my true impotency.

As I approached the carriage, the Vicomtesse swept suddenly down the steps and came towards
me with a friendly smile. "Monsieur de Bardelys," said she, "we are grateful for your intervention
in the cause of that rebel my husband."

"Madame," I besought her, under my breath, "if you would not totally destroy him, I beseech
you to be cautious. By your leave, I will have my men refreshed, and thereafter I shall take
the road to Toulouse again. I can only hope that my intervention with the King may bear better
fruit."

Although I spoke in a subdued key, Saint-Eustache, who stood near us, overheard me, as his
face very clearly testified.

"Remain here, sir," she replied, with some effusion, "and follow us when you are rested."

"Follow you?" I inquired. "Do you then go with Monsieur de Lavedan?"

"No, Anne," said the Vicomte politely from the carriage. "It will be tiring you unnecessarily.
You were better advised to remain here until my return."

I doubt not that the poor Vicomte was more concerned with how she would tire him than with
how the journey might tire her. But the Vicomtesse was not to be gainsaid. The Chevalier had
sneered when the Vicomte spoke of returning. Madame had caught that sneer, and she swung round
upon him now with the vehement fury of a virago.

"He'll not return, you think, you Judas!" she snarled at him, her lean, swarthy face growing
very evil to see. "But he shall--by God, he shall! Everyone knows that mildew and vermin do damage
in the home and in the field, but very few understand that, in addition to these visible enemies
of man, there are swarms of invisible plants and animals some of
which do far more damage, both directly and indirectly, than the seen
and familiar enemies.

All such very small plants and animals are known as microorganisms.

Not all microörganisms are harmful; some are our friends and are as
helpful to us as are cultivated plants and domesticated animals.



"Remember rather that it does not become the dignity of your station to address the fellow.
We avoid venomous reptiles, but we do not pause to reproach them with their venom. God made
them so."

Saint-Eustache coloured to the roots of his hair, then, turning hastily to the driver, he bade
him start. He would have closed the door with that, but that madame thrust herself forward.

That was the Chevalier's chance to be avenged. "You cannot go," said he.

"Cannot?" Her cheeks reddened. "Why not, monsieur Lesperon?

"I have no reasons to afford you," he answered brutally. "You cannot go."

"Your pardon, Chevalier," I interposed. "You go beyond your rights in seeking to prevent her.
Monsieur le Vicomte is not yet convicted. Do not, I beseech you, transcend the already odious
character of your work."

And without more ado I shouldered him aside, and held the door that she might enter. She rewarded
me with a smile--half vicious, half whimsical, and mounted the step. Saint-Eustache would have
interfered. He came at me as if resenting that shoulder-thrust of mine, and for a second I
almost thought he would have committed the madness of striking me.

"Take care, Saint-Eustache," I said very quietly, my eyes fixed on his. And much as dead Caesar's
ghost may have threatened Brutus with Philippi "We meet at Toulouse, Chevalier," said I, and
closing the carriage door I stepped back.

There was a flutter of skirts behind me. It was mademoiselle. So brave and outwardly so calm
until now, the moment of actual separation--and added thereunto perhaps her mother's going
and the loneliness that for herself she foresaw--proved more than she could endure. I stepped
aside, and she swept past me and caught at the leather curtain of the coach.

"Father!" she sobbed.

There are some things that a man of breeding may not witness--some things to look upon which
is near akin to eavesdropping or reading the letters of another. Such a scene did I now account
the present one, and, turning, I moved away. But Saint-Eustache cut it short, for scarce had
I taken three paces when his voice rang out the command to move. The driver hesitated, for
the girl was still hanging at the window. The back and forth motion of the iron plate induces current
in the electromagnet c. The current thus induced makes itself evident at the opposite end of
the line M, where by its magnetic attraction, it throws a second
iron plate into vibrations.



She sprang back, sobbing, and assuredly she would have fallen, thrown out of balance by the
movement of the coach, but that I put forth my hands and caught her.

I do not think she knew whose were the arms that held her for that brief space, so desolated
was she by the grief so long repressed. At last she realized that it was this worthless Bardelys
against whom she rested; this man who had wagered that he would win and wed her; this impostor
who had come to her under an assumed name; this knave who had lied to her as no gentleman could
have lied, swearing to love her, whilst, in reality, he did no more than seek to win a wager.
When all this she realized, she shuddered a second, then moved abruptly from my grasp, and,
without so much as a glance at me, she left me, and, ascending the steps of the chateau, she
passed from my sight.

I gave the order to dismount as the last of Saint-Eustache's followers vanished under the portcullis.

CHAPTER XIX. THE FLINT AND THE STEEL

"Mademoiselle will see you, monsieur," said Anatole at last.

Twice already had he carried unavailingly my request that Roxalanne should accord me an interview
ere I departed. On this the third occasion I had bidden him say that I would not stir from
Lavedan until she had done me the honour of hearing me. Seemingly that threat had prevailed
where entreaties had been scorned.

I followed Anatole from the half-light of the hall in which I had been pacing into the salon
overlooking the terraces and the river, where Roxalanne awaited me. She was standing at the
farther end of the room by one of the long windows, which was open, for, although we were already
in the first week of October, the air of Languedoc was as warm and balmy as that of Paris or
Picardy is in summer.

I advanced to the centre of the chamber, and there I paused and waited until it should please
her to acknowledge my presence and turn to face me. I was no fledgling. I had seen much, I
had learnt much and been in many places, and my bearing was wont to convey it. Never in my
life had I been gauche, for which I thank my parents, and if years ago--long years ago--a certain
timidity had marked my first introductions to the Louvre and the Luxembourg, that timidity
was something from which I had long since parted company. And yet it seemed to me, as I stood
in that pretty, sunlit room awaiting the pleasure of that child, scarce out of her teens, that
some of the awkwardness I had escaped in earlier years, some of the timidity of long ago, came
to me then. I shifted the weight of my body from one leg to the other; I fingered the table
by which I stood; I pulled at the hat I held; my colour came and went; I looked at her furtively
from under bent brows, and I thanked God that her back being towards me she might not see the
clown I must have seemed.

At length, unable longer to brook that discomposing silence--

"Mademoiselle!" I called softly. The sound of my own voice seemed to invigorate me, to strip
me of my awkwardness and self-consciousness. It broke the spell that for a moment had been
over me, and brought me back to myself--to the vain, self-confident, flamboyant Bardelys that
perhaps you have pictured from my writings.

"I hope, monsieur," she answered, without turning, "that what you may have to say may justify
in some measure your very importunate insistence."

On my life, this was not encouraging. But now that I was master of myself, I was not again
so easily to be disconcerted. My eyes rested upon her as she stood almost framed in the opening
of that long window. Usually a wedge consists of two inclined planes (Fig. 107).

A chisel and an ax are illustrations of wedges. Perhaps the most universal form of a wedge is
our common pin. Can you explain how this is a wedge?

159. The Screw. The illusion did not sway me then. I saw only a child; but a child with a great spirit,
with a great soul that seemed to accentuate her physical helplessness. That helplessness, which
I felt rather than saw, wove into the warp of my love. She was in grief just then--in grief
at the arrest of her father, and at the dark fate that threatened him; in grief at the unworthiness
of a lover. Of the two which might be the more bitter it was not mine to judge, but I burned
to gather her to me, to comfort and cherish her, to make her one with me, and thus, whilst
giving her something of my man's height and strength, cull from her something of that pure,
noble spirit, and thus sanctify my own.

I had a moment's weakness when she spoke. I was within an ace of advancing and casting myself
upon my knees like any Lenten penitent, to sue forgiveness. But I set the inclination down
betimes. Such expedients would not avail me here. 

The paddle wheel might be so heavy that the stream could not turn it, or so frail in comparison
with the water force that the stream would destroy it. In just as careful a manner, the size
and the strength of municipal reservoirs and pumps must be calculated.



She moved her head upon the white column of her neck, and with the gesture one of her brown
curls became disordered. I could fancy the upward tilt of her delicate nose, the scornful curve
of her lip as she answered shortly "Then say it quickly, monsieur."

And, being thus bidden, I said quickly "I love you, Roxalanne."

Her heel beat the shimmering parquet of the floor; she half turned towards me, her cheek flushed,
her lip tremulous with anger.

"Will you say what you have to say, monsieur?" she demanded in a concentrated voice, "and having
said it, will you go?"

"Mademoiselle, I have already said it," I answered, with a wistful smile.

"Oh!" she gasped. Then suddenly facing round upon me, a world of anger in her blue eyes--eyes
that I had known dreamy, but which were now very wide awake. "Was it to offer me this last
insult you forced your presence upon me? Was it to mock me with those words, me--a woman, with
no man about me to punish you? Shame, sir! Yet it is no more than I might look for in you."

"Mademoiselle, you do me grievous wrong--" I began.

