'I know not what to say,' replied Mrs. Franklin. 'One thing, however, is certain; that whining
parson will never betray us. He said that the dread of his own folly would not deter him from
denouncing us, but he lies--that dread of being exposed will alone keep his mouth shut. Yet,
good Heavens! he assures us that the secret is known to another person, who will not scruple
to use the knowledge to his advantage. Who can that person be? And what reward will he require
of us, to ensure his silence?'

'Mother,' said Josephine, in a decided tone--'We must quit this city forever. We can dwell
here no longer with safety. Let us go to Boston, and dwell there under an assumed name. I have
heard that Boston is a great city, where licentiousness and hypocrisy abound, in secret; where
the artful dissimulator can cloak himself with sanctity, and violate with impunity every command
of God and man. Yes, Boston is the city for us.'

'I agree with you, my dear,' rejoined her mother--'it is the greatest lust market of the Union.
You will be surprised to learn that several of my old schoolmates are now keeping fashionable
boarding houses for courtezans in that city and from the business derive a luxurious maintenance.
There is my friend Louisa Atwill, whose history I have often narrated to you and there, too,
is Lucy Bartlett, and Rachel Pierce, whose lover is the gay and celebrated Frank Hancock, whom
I have often seen--nor must I omit to mention Julia Carr, whose establishment is noted for
privacy, and is almost exclusively supported by married men. All these with whom I occasionally
correspond testify to the voluptuous temperament of the Bostonians, among whom you will be
sure to make many conquests.'

We merely detail this conversation for the purpose of showing the recklessness and depravity
of these two women. They had just acknowledged themselves guilty of the crime of murder; and
could thus calmly converse on indifferent and sinful topics, immediately after the departure
of their accuser, and as soon as their first excitement of fear had subsided.

While thus arranging their plans for the future, the servant in livery again entered, to announce
another visitor.

'He is a strange looking man,' said the servant, 'and when I civilly told him that the ladies
received no company before dinner, he gave me such a look as I shall never forget, and told
me to hold my tongue and lead the way--good Lord, here he comes now!'

The terrified servant vanished from the room, as a tall figure stalked in, wrapped in a cloak.
The ladies could scarce repress a shriek, when throwing aside his hat and cloak, the stranger
exhibited a face of appalling hideousness; and a fearful misgiving took possession of their
minds, that this was the other person who was in the secret of their crime.

'You are the two Franklin ladies I presume--mother and daughter--good!' and the stranger glanced
from one to the other with a fierce satisfaction.

'What is your business with us?' demanded Josephine, haughtily.

'Ha! young hussey, you are very saucy,' growled the stranger savagely--'but your pride will
soon be humbled. In the first place, are we alone, and secure from interruption?'

'We are--why do you ask?' said Mrs. Franklin.

'Because your own personal safety demands that our interview be not overheard,' replied the
man. 'As you are fashionable people, I will introduce myself. Ladies, I am called the Dead
Man, and have the honor to be your most obedient servant. Now to business.'

The Dead Man proceeded to relate those circumstances with which the reader is already acquainted,
connected with his visit to the tomb of Mr. Franklin, and the manner in which he had come to
the knowledge of that gentleman's murder. He omitted, however, to state that he had shut up
the rector in the tomb, for he firmly believed in his own mind that Dr. Sinclair had perished.

'You perceive,' said he, when he had finished these details--'it is in my power to have you
hung up at any time. Now, to come to the point at once--what consideration will you allow me
if I keep silent in regard to this affair?'

'Of course you require money,' remarked Josephine, who was disposed to treat the matter in
as business-like a manner as possible.

'Why--yes; but not money alone,' replied the Dead Man, with a horrible leer;--'you are both
devilish handsome, and I should prefer to take out a good portion of my reward in your soft
embraces. You shudder ladies; yet would not my arms around those fair necks of yours be pleasanter
than an ugly rope, adjusted by the hands of the hangman? You will one day admit the force of
the argument; at present I will not press the matter, but content myself with a moderate demand
on your purse. Oblige me with the loan--ha, ha!--of the small trifle of one thousand dollars.'

After a moment's consultation with her daughter, Mrs. Franklin left the room to get the money
from her escritoire. The door had scarcely closed upon her, when the Dead Man advanced to Josephine,
caught her in his arms, despite her resistance, imprinted numberless foul kisses upon her glowing
cheeks, her ripe lips, and alabaster shoulders. It was a rare scene; Beauty struggling in the
arms of the Beast!

The lecherous monster did not release her until he heard her mother returning. Mrs. Franklin
handed to him a roll of bank-notes, and said--

'There is the amount you asked for and you must grant that you are liberally paid for your
silence. I trust that you will consider the reward sufficient, and that we shall see you no more.'

'Bah!' exclaimed the ruffian, as he deposited the money in his pocket--'do you think I will
let you off so cheaply? No, no, my pretty mistress--you may expect to see me often; and at
my next visit I must have something besides money--a few little amative favors will then prove
acceptable, both from you and your fair daughter, whose lips, by Satan! are as sweet to my
taste as human blood. I know very well you will attempt to run away from me, by secretly removing
from the city; but hark'ee--though you remove to hell, and assume the hardest name of Beelzebub's
family of fourth cousins--I'll find you out! Remember, I have said it. Adieu.'

And bowing with mock politeness, the miscreant took his departure from the house.

'Good heavens!' exclaimed Mrs. Franklin--'we are completely in the power of that dreadful man.
We must leave the city, without delay, for Boston; yet we will spread the report that we are
going to Philadelphia, in order to escape from that monster, if possible.'

'A monster indeed!' said Josephine shuddering--'during your absence from the room, he took
the most insolent liberties with me, and besmeared me with his loathsome kisses. How horrible
it will be, if he ever finds us out, and compels us to yield our persons to his savage lust!'

'True,' said her mother--'and yet, for my own part, sooner than pay him another thousand, I
would yield to his desires; for the manner in which we have squandered money, during the last
two years, has fearfully diminished my fortune, and there is but a very small balance of cash
in my favor at the bank. Let us take some illustrations. Suppose some statement made about Bismarck.
Assuming that there is such a thing as direct acquaintance with oneself, Bismarck himself might
have used his name directly to designate the particular person with
whom he was acquainted.

In this case, if he made a judgment about himself, he himself might be a constituent of the judgment.
Here the proper name has the direct use which it always wishes to have, as simply standing for
a certain object, and not for a description of the object.

Simon, (for this was the footman's name) promised implicit obedience to these orders; and was
rewarded for his fidelity by a private tete-a-tete with his fair patron, during which many
kisses were exchanged, and other little tokens of affection were indulged in; after which she
gave him the keys of the house, charging him not to visit the wine-cellar too often, and by
all means not to admit a woman into the house, under pain of her eternal displeasure.

That same afternoon, the two ladies took passage in a steamer for Boston. They were received
on board by the handsome and gentlemanly Captain, who, being somewhat of a fashionable man,
had some slight acquaintance with the aristocratic mother and her beauteous daughter. He courteously
insisted that they should occupy his own state-room; and they accordingly took possession of
that elegant apartment, where they ordered tea be served; and, at their invitation, the Captain
supped with them. The repast over, he apologized to the ladies for his necessary absence; and
sent the steward to them with a bottle of very choice wine.

The state-room was divided into two apartments by a curtain of silk; and in each of these apartments
was a magnificent bed. The floor was handsomely carpeted, and the walls were adorned with superb
mirrors and pictures. The Captain was a man of taste, and his cabin was a gem of luxury and
splendor.

As the stately steamer ploughed her way through the turbid waters of the Sound, many were the
scenes which took place on board of her, worthy to be delineated by our pen. Though it is our
peculiar province to write of city crimes, we nevertheless must not omit to depict some of
the transactions which occurred during the passage, and which may be appropriately classed
under the head of steamboat crimes.

At the hour for retiring, the ladies' cabin was filled with the feminine portion of the passengers,
who began to divest themselves of their garments in order to court the embraces of the drowsy
god. There was the simpering boarding-school miss of sixteen; the fat wife of a citizen with
a baby in her arms, and another in anticipation; the lady of fashion, attended by her maid;
the buxom widow, attended by a lap-dog, musical with silver bells, and there, too, was the
elderly dame, attended by a host of grandchildren, to the horror of an old maid, who declares
she 'can't BEAR young ones,' which is true enough, literally.

Now it is a fact beyond dispute, that ladies, among themselves, when no males are present,
act and converse with more freedom from restraint, than a company of men; and the fact was
never more forcibly illustrated than upon this occasion. The boarding-school miss, en chemise,
romped with the buxom widow, who was herself in similar costume. The citizen's fat wife lent
her baby to the old maid, who wanted to know how it seemed; and was rewarded for her kindness
by a token of gratitude on the baby's part, which caused the aforesaid old maid to drop the
little innocent like a hot potato. The fashionable lady, who dressed for bed as for a ball,
was arrayed in a very costly and becoming night-dress, ornamented with a profusion of lace
and ruffles; and standing before a mirror, was admiring her own charms; yet she painted, and
had false teeth--defects which were atoned for by a fine bust and magnificent ankle. Her maid,
a stout, well-looking girl, was toying with a very pretty boy of eight or nine years of age,
and when unobserved, embraced and kissed him with an ardor which betokened a good share of
amative sensibility on her part.

'The men are such odious creatures, I positively cannot endure them,' remarked the old maid.

'And yet they are very useful, and sometimes agreeable,' said the buxom widow, with an arch
smile, (she was handsome, if she was a widow,) and glancing significantly at the citizen's
fat wife.

'Pooh!' exclaimed the old maid, climbing into her berth, and privately taking off her wig,
(she was bald,)--'I can take my pick of ten thousand men, yet I wouldn't have one of them.'
(She had been pining for an offer twenty years!)

The buxom widow got into her berth, which she shared with her lapdog; and as the little animal
dove under the bed-clothes and became invisible, it is difficult to conjecture in what precise
locality he stowed himself! The fashionable lady 'turned in' after the most approved manner;
and as the berths were somewhat scarce, her maid generously offered to share her couch with
little Charley, an offer which that interesting youth at first declined, saying he was afraid
of her, she 'squeezed him so,' but his scruples were overcome by her assurances that the offence
should not be repeated, and Charley concluded to accept the offer.

Those scenes did not pass unwitnessed for two men were standing outside, looking thro' one
of the windows, from which the curtain had been partially drawn. Both these men were respectably
dressed, and both were over sixty years of age; yet they viewed the unconscious and undressed
ladies with lecherous delight.

'But, deacon,' said one--'do look at that one standing before the glass; what breasts--what
legs--what a form--what--heavens! I shall go crazy if I look much longer!'

'Now, in my way of thinking,' said the deacon--'that young thing of sixteen is the most delicious
little witch of the entire lot;--what a fair skin--what elastic limbs--what wantonness in every
look and movement! There's a youthfulness and freshness about her, which render her doubly
attractive.'

'Ah, they are all going to retire, and we shall lose our sport.--By the way, deacon, what kind
of a set are they that I'm going to preach to, in Boston?' asked the Rev. John Marrowfat--for
it was that noted hero of pulpit oratory, amours and matrimony!

'Oh, they're a set of soft-pated fools,' replied deacon Small, 'preach hell-fire and brimstone
to 'em, they'll swallow everything you say, and give you a devilish good salary into the bargain.'

A young man, small and thin, and well dressed, now approached, and grasped the deacon by the hand.

'Why, this is an unexpected pleasure,' said the young man--'who would have thought of seeing
you here?'

'I am happy to meet you, brother,' said the deacon--'brother Marrowfat, allow me to introduce
you to Samuel Cough, a distinguished advocate of temperance.'

'What are you going to do in Boston, Sam?' asked deacon Small.

'Oh, going to astonish the natives a little, that's all,' replied Mr. Cough. 'That was a bad
scrape I got into, in Albany; I got infernally drunk, and slept in a brothel, which was all
very well, you know, and nothing unusual--but people found it out! Well, I got up a cock-and-bull
story about drinking drugged soda, and some people believe it and some don't. Now, when I get
corned, I keep out of sight.--Ah, temperance spouting is a great business! But come, gentlemen--it
won't do for us to be seen drinking at the bar; I've got a bottle of fourth-proof brandy in
my pocket; let's take a swig all around.'

And producing the article in question, Mr. Cough took a very copious swig, and passed the bottle
to the others, who followed his example. We shall now leave this worthy trio, with the remark
that they all got very comfortably drunk previous to retiring for the night. Mr. Cough turned
into his berth with his boots on and a cigar in his mouth; Mr. Marrowfat sung obscene songs,
and fell over a chair; and deacon Small rushed into the gentleman's cabin, and offered to fight
any individual present, for a trifling wager. He was finally carried to bed in the custody
of the bootblack.

Among the passengers was a very handsome lad, twelve or fourteen years of age, whose prepossessing
appearance seemed to attract the attention of a tall gentleman, of distinguished bearing, enveloped
in a cloak.--He wore a heavy moustache, and his complexion was very dark. He paid the most
incessant attention to the boy, making him liberal presents of cake and fruit, and finally
gave him a beautiful gold ring, from his own finger.

This man was a foreigner--one of those beasts in human shape whose perverted appetites prompts
them to the commission of a crime against nature. Once before, in the tenth chapter of this
narrative, we took occasion to introduce one of those fiends to the notice of the reader; it
was at the masquerade ball, where the Spanish ambassador made a diabolical proposal to Josephine
Franklin, whom he supposed to be a boy. It is an extremely delicate task for a writer to touch
on a subject so revolting; yet the crime actually exists, beyond the shadow of a doubt, and
therefore we are compelled to give it place in our list of crimes. We reprobate, in the name
of literary decency, the methods which have been employed to give an unfair impression of his
work, as if it had been compiled merely to supplant Webster, and as if the whole matter were
a question of blind partisanship and prejudice. It was well known that the principal promenade for such cattle was in the Park, where
they might be seen nightly; and the circumstance had been more than once commented upon by
the newspapers.--Any person who has resided in New York for two or three years, knows that
we are speaking the truth. Nor is this all. There was formerly a house of prostitution for
that very purpose, kept by a foreigner, and splendidly furnished; here lads were taken as apprentices,
and regularly trained for the business;--they were mostly boys who had been taken from the
lowest classes of society, and were invariably of comely appearance. They were expensively
dressed in a peculiar kind of costume; half masculine and half feminine; and were taught a
certain style of speech and behaviour calculated to attract the beastly wretches who patronize
them. For a long time the existence of this infernal den was a secret; but it eventually leaked
out, and the proprietor and his gang were obliged to beat a hasty retreat from the city, to
save themselves from the summary justice of Lynch law.

But to return to the steamboat. The foreigner called the lad aside, and the following conversation
ensued:--

'My pretty lad, this cabin is excessively close, and the bed inconvenient. I have a very nice
state-room, and should be happy to have you share it with me.'

'Thank you, sir,' answered the boy--'if it would cause you no inconvenience--'

'None whatever; come with me at once,' said the other, and they ascended to the deck, and entered
his state room. It is proper to observe, that the youth was perfectly innocent, and suspected
not the design of his new friend. Half an hour afterwards he dashed from the state room with
every appearance of indignation and affright; seeking one of the officers of the boat he told
his story, and the result was that the foreign gentleman and his baggage were set ashore at
a place destitute of every thing but rocks, and over ten miles from any house; very inconvenient
for a traveller, especially at night, with a storm in prospect. The miserable sodomite should
have been more harshly dealt with.

To return to Josephine and her mother, whom we left in the Captain's elegant state room.

We must here remark that Sophia Franklin, the gentle, angelic sister of the depraved Josephine,
had gone to spend a month or so with an aunt, (her father's sister,) in Newark, N.J., which
circumstance will account for not accompanying her mother and sister in their flight from New
York. It may be as well to add that she was in blissful ignorance of her father having been
murdered, and of course, knew nothing of the discovery of that fact by Dr. Sinclair.

'Thank heaven,' cried Josephine, raising the wine glass to her vermilion lips--'we are at last
clear of that odious New York! I feel as if just liberated from a prison.'

'The feeling is natural, my dear,' rejoined her mother--'you are no longer in constant dread
of that horrible fellow who is so savagely amorous with regard to both of us. We have fairly
given him the slip, and it will be difficult for him to find us.'

'Don't you think, mamma,' asked the young lady--'that the Captain, who so politely surrendered
this beautiful cabin for our accommodation, is a splendid fellow? Really, I am quite smitten
with him.'

'So am I,' remarked her mother--'he is certainly very handsome, and it is hard that he should
be turned out of his cabin on our account. Why cannot we all three sleep here? I am sure he
needs but a hint to make him joyfully agree to such an arrangement.'

'I understand you mamma,' said Josephine, her eyes sparking with pleasure--'you will see what
a delicate invitation I'll give him; but I won't be selfish--you shall enjoy as much benefit
from the arrangement as myself. Hark! somebody knocks--it must be the Captain.'

And so it was; he had come to inquire if the ladies were comfortable, and on receiving an affirmative
answer, was about to bid them good night and depart, when Josephine invited him to sit down
and have a glass of wine with them. It was not in the nature of the good Captain to decline
an invitation when extended by a pretty woman. The mother and daughter, tastefully attired
in superb evening dresses, looked irresistibly charming--the more so, perhaps, because their
cheeks were suffused with the rosy hues of wine and passion.

'I have been thinking, Captain,' said Josephine, casting her brilliant eyes upon the carpet--'that
it is unjust for us to drive you from your cabin, and make you pass the night in some less
comfortable place. Mother and I have been talking about it, and we both think you had better
sleep in here, as usual.'

'What--and drive you ladies out?' cried the Captain--'couldn't think of it, upon my honor.'

'Oh, it doesn't necessarily follow that we must be driven out,' said Josephine, raising her
eyes to his face, and smiling archly--'you silly man, don't you see that we want to be very
kind to you?'

'Is it possible?' exclaimed the Captain, almost beside himself with joy--'dear ladies, you
cannot be jesting, and I accept your offer with gratitude and delight. Good heavens, what a
lucky fellow I am!'

And clasping both ladies around the waists, he kissed them alternately, again and again. That
night was one of guilty rapture to all the parties; but the particulars must be supplied by
the reader's own imagination.

       *     *     *     *     *

And now, behold Mrs. Lucretia Franklin and her daughter Josephine, in the great city of Boston!
The same day of their arrival they hired a handsome house, already furnished in Washington
street: and the next day they made their debut in that fashionable thoroughfare, by promenading,
in dresses of such magnificence and costliness, that they created a tremendous excitement among
the bucks and belles who throng there every fine afternoon.

'Who can they be?' was asked by every one, and answered by no one. Of all the arts, Tragedy is
the proudest, the most triumphant; for it builds its shining citadel in the very centre of
the enemy's country, on the very summit of his highest mountain; from its impregnable watchtowers,
his camps and arsenals, his columns and forts, are all revealed; within its walls the free
life continues, while the legions of Death and Pain and Despair, and all the servile captains
of tyrant Fate, afford the burghers of that dauntless city new spectacles of beauty.


That evening they went to the opera, and while listening to the divine strains of Biscaccianti,
became the cynosure of a thousand admiring glances. And that night, beneath the windows of
their residence, a party of gallant amateurs, with voice and instrument, awoke sounds of such
celestial harmony, that the winged spirits of the air paused in their aerial flight to catch
the choral symphony that floated on the soft breezes of the moon-lit night!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: A fact, derived by the Author from the private history of a fashionable courtezan.]

CHAPTER XXII

Showing the Desperate and Bloody Combat which took place in the Dark Vaults.

'You will pray for death in vain; death shall not come to your relief for years,' were the
words of the miscreant who had shut up poor Frank in that loathsome dungeon;--and like a weight
of lead, that awful doom oppressed and crushed the heart of our hero, as he lay stretched upon
the stone floor of the cell, with the maniac Dwarf gibbering beside him, and staring at him
with its serpent-like and malignant eyes.

While lying there, weak with hunger, and his soul filled with despair, a wild delirium took
possession of his senses, and in his diseased mind horror succeeded horror. First, the misshaped
Dwarf seemed transformed into a huge vulture, about to tear him to pieces with its strong talons;
then it became a gigantic reptile, about to discharge upon him a deluge of poisonous slime;
then it changed to the Evil One, come to bear him to perdition. Finally, as the wildest paroxysms
of his delirium subsided, the creature stood before him as the Image and spirit of the Dead
Man, appointed to torture and to drive him mad.

'Die, thou fiend incarnate!' he exclaimed, in a phrenzy of rage and despair; and starting from
the ground, he rushed upon the creature and attempted to strangle it. But with an appalling
yell, it struggled from his grasp, and leaping upon his shoulders bore him to the earth with
a force that stunned him; and then it fastened its teeth in his flesh and began to drink his blood.

But the fates willed that Sydney was not thus to die; for at that moment the iron door was
suddenly thrown open, and the glare of a lantern shone into the dungeon; then there entered
a person whose features were concealed by a hideous mask, and the dwarf quitted its hold of
the victim, and flew screaming into a corner.

'He must be revived ere he is brought to judgement,' said the Mask; and he raised Sydney in
his arms, carried him out of the dungeon, and fastened the door.

Then the Mask stepped upon the platform with his burden, and descended into the dark abyss.
When Frank recovered his senses, he found himself in a sort of cavern which was lighted by
a lamp suspended from the ceiling. He was lying upon a rude bed; and near him, silent and motionless,
sat a masked figure.

'Where am I--and who art thou?' demanded our hero, in a feeble tone, as a vague terror stole
over him.

The Mask replied not, but rising, brought him a cup of wine and some food, of which he partook
with eagerness. Much refreshed, he sank back upon his pillow, and fell into a long, deep slumber.
When he awoke, he found himself in the same cavern, on the same bed, and guarded as before
by the mysterious Mask, who now spoke for the first time.

'Arise and follow me,' said he.--Sydney obeyed, and followed the Unknown through a long passage,
and into a vast hall or cavern, brilliantly lighted. Glancing around him, he saw at once that
he was in the Dark Vaults, in that part called the 'Infernal Regions,' the rendezvous of the
band of miscreants known as the 'Jolly Knights of the Round Table.'

Seated around that table was a company of men, to the number of about fifty, all so hideously
masked, that they seemed like a band of demons just released from the bottomless pit. They
sat in profound silence, and were all so perfectly motionless that they might have been taken
for statues rudely chiseled from the solid rock.

