By the end of October they were near the Fort of Hilo on the coast of Peru, far south of the
equator. Here at night they anchored about two miles from the village, while they sent four
canoes with fifty men in them to seize and plunder the town. In the morning they discovered
by the flags which the men had put out, that the town was in the hands of the English. Accordingly,
all the men that could be spared from the ship landed and learned that the enemy had been put
to flight after a few volleys had been exchanged. In the town they secured great quantities
of pitch and tar, besides oil, wine, flour and several other kinds of provisions. Most of the
Spaniards had fled to the hills, and the pirates were afraid that at any moment they might
be attacked. About sixty men were sent out to search the valley and the country round about
the town. The whole region was found to be very pleasing, thickly set with groves of figs,
olives, oranges, lemons and other fruits. About four miles up the valley appeared a great sugar
factory, where sugar, oil and molasses were found in abundance. The mill was deserted, and
the pirates were unable to capture any of the inhabitants, though from time to time the Spaniards
were seen marching along the hilltops whence they tumbled down great stones and fired at random
among the buccaneers.

At the sugar factory, under a flag of truce, the Spaniards promised to deliver eighty beef
cattle at the port the next day by noon as a ransom for the building. Captain Sharp accordingly
sent word that no violence was to be offered to those who brought the beeves down to the ship.

The next morning, the Spaniards, bearing a flag of truce, came to Captain Sharp and told him
that sixteen of the cattle were already at the port, and the rest would be there the next morning.
Accordingly, the raiders began their retreat to the sea, expecting to re-embark on the ship.
Ringrose thought that at least twenty men should be left behind at the sugar house for a lookout
to keep watch of the Spaniards, but he was overruled on this and all went on to the port, where,
however, no cattle were found, nor was there evidence that any effort had been made to bring
them. The next morning Captain Sharp went again to the hills and met the Spaniards, who promised
that the cattle would certainly be there by night, and accordingly it was decided to wait one
day more. But there is blood upon the water, and he rises for a moment to the surface. "A hundred
piasters for the timseach," I exclaimed, and half-a-dozen Arabs plunged into the stream. There!
he rises again, and the blacks dash at him as if he hadn't a tooth in his head. Now he is gone, the
waters close over him, and I never saw him since.

From that time we saw hundreds of crocodiles of all sizes, and fired shots,--enough of them for
a Spanish revolution; but we never could get possession of any, even if we hit them, which to
this day remains doubtful.

~Remarkable Instance of Courage in a Lady.~

In the Life of Thomas Day, Esq., an anecdote is related of Miss B----, afterwards Mrs. Day,
shewing with what remarkable effect presence of mind and courage can tame the ferocity of
the brute creation.

Miss B. was, on one occasion, walking in company with another young lady through a field, when
a bull came running up to them with all the marks of malevolence.

Her friend began to run towards the stile, but was prevented by Miss B., who told her, that
as she could not reach the stile soon enough to save herself, and as it is the nature of these
animals to attack persons in flight, her life would be in great danger if she attempted to
run, and would be inevitably lost if she chanced to fall; but that, if she would steal gently
to the stile, she herself would take off the bull's attention from her, by standing between them.
Accordingly, turning her face towards the animal with the firmest aspect she could assume,
she fixed her eyes steadily upon his. It is said by travellers, that a lion itself may be controlled
by the steady looks of a human being; but that, no sooner a man turns
his back, than the beast springs upon him as his prey. Miss B., to
whom this property of animals seems to have been known, had the presence
of mind to apply it to the safety of her friend and of herself. By
her steady aspect she checked the bull's career; but he shewed the
strongest marks of indignation at being so controlled, by roaring
and tearing the ground with his feet and horns. A third time they formed and a third time retreated. This method of
fighting they continued until the English were drawn far away from the town, which was evidently
the plan of the Spaniards, although they lost three of their officers and several horses. The
buccaneers, abandoning the chase, crossed the green fields and waded the irrigating streams
which enclosed them, finding here and there a house, but all destitute of both inhabitants
and provisions. The Spaniards had taken good care that little should be left for the pirates.
Near the town they found fine fruit orchards and gardens, and regaled themselves with strawberries,
which are described as being big as walnuts and very delicious to the taste. In fact, everything
about the place pleased them, excepting the fact that most of the valuables had been transported
and hidden. It appeared, too, that the Spaniards, fearing a revolt among their Chilian slaves,
had killed nearly all of them. Nevertheless a few were found who served as guides and showed
the pirates where much plate and many kinds of valuable goods had been stored away.

The buccaneers spent that night in the village, and the next morning the Spaniards came bearing
a flag of truce and offered to treat with their conquerors. The buccaneers finally agreed to
depart, providing a ransom of ninety-five thousand pieces of eight was paid. This was promised
by the inhabitants, and it was agreed that it should be paid the next day.

That night an earthquake shook the surrounding country and badly frightened the pirates, who
were sleeping in one of the largest churches. Moreover, during the night the Spaniards turned
the mountain streams through the streets of the town, apparently hoping to drive out the buccaneers,
or at least to prevent the burning of the town.

Until noon the next day the pirates waited for the ransom, but when it did not appear they
were satisfied that the Spaniards had never intended to pay it, and accordingly the buccaneers
burned the town and retreated to the coast. Here they found that the Spaniards had tried to
burn the ship by rather an extraordinary stratagem. They took the hide of a horse, blew it
up till it floated like a great bladder, and upon it put a man who paddled himself under the
stern of the ship. Here he crammed oakum, brimstone and other combustibles between the rudder
and the sternpost, and set the whole on fire. In a few moments the vessel was covered with
smoke, and in the confusion the Spaniard escaped. However, his plot was not successful, for
the pirates had the good fortune to discover the cause of the fire and put it out before any
serious damage was done.

Three weeks later, the pirates visited the island of Juan Fernandez, where they spent several
days and where they celebrated their Christmas holiday by firing three volleys of shot. They
found an abundance of goats on the island and were able to replenish their larder. The water
supply was excellent, but at one time when Ringrose with nine of his companions in two canoes
had landed to fill their jars, a storm came up which prevented them from returning to the ship.
The wind grew so violent that the ship itself was forced to sail out into the open sea. About
noon, Ringrose and his companions tried to follow the ship, but were driven back upon the shore
by a raging sea. Early in the evening they tried a second time, and got some little distance
from land, but the waves were so violent that they were forced to throw overboard all their
jars of water to lighten their boats. Even then they were unable to reach their ship, but went
ashore in the darkness and hauled up their canoes. They were unable to rest where they landed
because of the great numbers of noisy seals that troubled them exceedingly. Therefore they
went higher up into the islands, kindled a fire and spent a wet, hungry and uncomfortable night.
All about them were the nests and roosting places of a multitude of birds, one of which fell
down into their fire and was killed. Early the next morning they put to sea again, and finally
found their ship half a league from them at anchor in a bay which furnished them a better anchorage
than any they had previously discovered. More days were spent in taking on water, chopping
wood, catching fish and killing goats. Terrible storms struck them, and the death of one of
their mates made the stay an unhappy one.

Here they were told the story of a man who was cast upon this island, the only one saved from
a large ship, and who lived five years there before any one came to carry him off. This was
probably Alexander Selkirk, from whose adventures on the island Defoe wrote his Robinson Crusoe.
Ringrose tells us that he on a trip into the island one day found cut in the bark of a tree
a cross with several letters beside it, and that on the same tree he cut his own name with
a cross above it. On the twelfth of January, seeing three ships which appeared to be men-of-war
sailing toward them, they hurriedly left the island, abandoning there one of their Indian allies
because he could not be found in time. Thus a second Man Friday was deposited upon Robinson
Crusoe's island.

While at the island, some of the buccaneers mutinied, deposed Captain Sharp, and chose Watling
to be their commander. When they left the island they went directly to the coast and made a
second attempt upon the town of Arica, but they were beaten off with a great loss of men, among
the killed being Captain Watling. After their return to the ship, Sharp was again chosen captain,
and remained as such until the end of the voyage.

It seems that about the first of February, Ringrose was taken sick, and that thereafter he
was unable to keep a constant diary, so that our accounts of the remainder of the voyage are
brief and broken.

In March, sick and discouraged by the misfortunes they had met, the buccaneers decided not
to continue the voyage, but to land, abandon their ship and return home across the continent.
For one reason and another, however, they delayed leaving the ship, and continued to work their
way north until about the middle of April. Forty-seven of the men who had been discontented
all along were then put ashore, while the rest of the party decided to remain loyal to Captain
Sharp, and to go home around the southern part of the continent. Before the mutineers were
put ashore, the ship had come north almost to the equator, so that the journey of the deserters
was materially lessened. Two of the mutineers reached the Isthmus, crossed it and subsequently
published some brief accounts of their experiences.

Sharp's vessel cruised about in the vicinity of the equator, raiding small towns and capturing
Spanish vessels, and piling up a large amount of treasure, until the end of August, when the
buccaneers turned south with a determination to make the voyage home as quickly as possible.

About the twentieth of September they passed the Tropic of Capricorn, and by the middle of
October they were almost opposite the Straits of Magellan. On this voyage they had kept most
of the time far away from the coast, and had landed only when necessary to re-stock their ship
with water and provisions.

In the wildest kind of weather they searched the rocky coast, trying to find the opening into
the Strait of Magellan, but were unable to do so. Provisions ran low, and many times they feared
actual starvation little less than destruction by storms and hidden rocks. Most of them were
sick, and all were discouraged. At last they abandoned the idea of going through the straits,
and sailed south around Tierra del Fuego through rain and fogs and frost.

About the middle of November they were able to turn their course to the north, and from that
time we find them working steadily forward, till, on the twenty-eighth of January, they sighted
the island of Barbados. Here they were told that peace was declared between Spain and England,
but as they saw one of the British men-of-war lying at anchor, they did not dare to put into
the harbor, fearing they would be seized as pirates, for throughout their whole expedition
they had had no commission. Still they were overjoyed to see some of their countrymen again
and to talk with them, as they did with the mariners on some of the small vessels that were
putting out from the island.

They set free at this place a negro who had served them as shoemaker, giving him his liberty
because he had worked so faithfully. Besides this, they presented Captain Sharp with a mulatto
body servant as a mark of the respect and admiration they had for his skill in conducting them
through so many dangerous adventures. Then they divided the last of their prize money and started
a fund for the celebration of their return. As a nucleus, there were a hundred pieces of eight,
prize money which they could not divide satisfactorily. To this they added the price of a little
Spanish dog which they had found on one of their prizes, and which they had fed and cared for
to the present time. Captain Sharp bought the dog, paying forty pieces of eight for him, with
the understanding that the money should go into the "jollification fund."

On the thirtieth of January they sighted the island of Antigua, and sent a canoe on shore to
get tobacco and find out whether the governor would permit them to come into port. They found
everybody excepting the governor willing and anxious to see them, but the latter flatly denied
them entry. Nemmir escaped up the country, crowned with savage glory, and married the daughter
of a king, who soon left him his successor, and the Tiger still defies the old Pasha's power.
The latter, however, took a terrible revenge upon his people: he
burnt all the inhabitants of the village nearest to the scene of his
son's slaughter, and cut off the right hands of five hundred men besides.

So much for African warfare.

CROCODILE SHOOTING.

The first time a man fires at a crocodile is an epoch in his life. We had only now arrived in
the waters where they abound; for it is a curious fact that none
are ever seen below Mineych, though Herodotus speaks of them as fighting
with the dolphins, at the mouths of the Nile.

A prize had been offered for the first man who detected a crocodile,
and the crew had now been two days on the alert in search of them.

Buoyed up with the expectation of such game, we had latterly reserved our fire for them exclusively;
and the wild-duck and turtle, nay, even the vulture and the eagle, had swept past, or soared above,
in security.

At length the cry of "Timseach, timseach!" was heard from half-a-dozen claimants of the proffered
prize, and half-a-dozen black fingers were eagerly pointed to a spit of sand, on which were
strewn apparently some logs of trees. It was a covey of crocodiles! Hastily and silently the boat
was run in shore. R. was ill, so I had the enterprise to myself, and clambered up the steep
bank with a quicker pulse than when I first levelled a rifle at a Highland deer. My intended
victims might have prided themselves on their superior nonchalance; and, indeed, as I approached
them, there seemed to be a sneer on their ghastly mouths and winking
eyes.

Slowly they rose, one after the other, and waddled to the water, all but one, the most gallant
or most gorged of the party.

He lay still until I was within a hundred yards of him; then slowly
rising on his fin-like legs, he lumbered towards the river, looking
askance at me, with an expression of countenance that seemed to say,
"He can do me no harm; however, I may as well have a swim."

 His father, who was of Irish parentage, during
his youth lived with his parents in Pennsylvania, but afterwards moved to North Carolina and
thence into the Tennessee country. David's grandparents were both murdered in their own house
by the Creek Indians. At the same time, one uncle of David's was badly wounded, and a second,
a younger one, who was deaf and dumb, was captured by the Creeks and kept in captivity for
seventeen years, when he was met and recognized by an elder brother, who purchased him from
the Indians that held him. Hearing of such atrocities must have affected the young David, and
undoubtedly accounts for some of the fierce hatred which the backwoodsman felt for the Creeks,
and the callous way in which he looked upon their sufferings when later he fought against them
with the militia from his neighborhood.

David had five brothers and three sisters; his father was a poor man who tried farming and
other pioneer occupations, who built a mill and lost it in a freshet just as it was completed,
and who finally established a little roadhouse or tavern on one of the Tennessee trails. So
poor were they that much schooling was impossible for the children, yet David was sent at the
proper time, and applied himself diligently for a few days to his letters. However, he was
so unfortunate as to quarrel with one of his older companions who little realized the savage
nature of the newcomer. That night Davy lay in wait for the larger boy and set upon him so
fiercely and beat him so unmercifully that he was soon ready to cry for quarter. On the way
home Davy persuaded his brothers to say nothing about the fight, and the next morning instead
of going to school, he ran off into the woods, where he stayed until the children returned
at night. He kept this up for several days, fearing to return to school and take the whipping
he knew he must get from his teacher. In the end his father heard that he was playing truant,
and tried to force the boy back to school. Davy refused to go, and when his father tried to
punish him, ran away from home and engaged himself to a drover. He was fifteen years old before
he returned to his home, and then he had changed so much that his parents did not recognize
him, and it was some time before one of his sisters discovered who he really was. They received
him joyfully, and thereafter, until he reached his majority, he worked faithfully for his father,
paying off the latter's indebtedness and assisting the family in every possible way.

His life during this time was that of a backwoods boy, working hard and finding his recreation
in hunting, fishing and the sports of the border. It was during this time that he acquired
the over-powering taste for hunting in the woods, that lasted all his life. During these years,
too, he developed that sturdy manhood which carried him through many trying ordeals. Though
he never had schooling, and his conversation and writings were lacking in grammar, yet his
speech was full of a sharp, rude wit, and his ideas were characterized by shrewd common sense.

Davy's motto, adopted early in life, was, "Be sure you are right, then go ahead,"--words that
his own career made famous.

When the Creek War broke out, Crockett volunteered, and he served as soldier and spy till peace
was declared. His experiences there we will let him tell himself, as he wrote them in his autobiography.
(See page 37.)

After his return from the Creek War, he was elected to Congress in 1826 and in 1828. He was
defeated in 1830 and re-elected in 1832. When he was first elected he knew very little about
the government, and was totally ignorant of his duties as a member of Congress, but here again
his good common sense and bright mind came to his aid; and although he worked under great disadvantages,
yet he won respect and admiration from the other law-makers. He was always a curious and noticeable
figure in Washington, both on account of his dress, which was similar to that of his backwoods
companions, and because of his manner, which was as strange as his clothes. Such a man could
not help being noticed, and on a trip which he made to Philadelphia, New York and Boston, he
was received everywhere kindly and added not a little to his fame.

He was defeated at the close of his third term in Congress, and being stirred by the exciting
news that came from Texas, he left his home in Tennessee and went West to join those men who
were fighting the Mexicans in an endeavor to make Texas really a free and independent state.

He kept a journal during this trip, and in it he describes very entertainingly his companions
and their experiences. Among them were three curious characters: a bee hunter, who was well
known through Texas and who left his wife Kate at Nacogdoches; a fierce old man, who had been
a pirate and had abandoned the sea for more exciting events on shore; and a quaint gambler,
whom Crockett picked up near the Mississippi and persuaded to abandon the petty shell game
by which he was getting small sums from the people he met on the way. The real name of this
man Crockett never told, but assigned to him the nickname "Thimblerig."

We shall tell of the fall of the Alamo in another place (page 141), but Crockett's connection
with it is so intimate that we must borrow a little from his diary. 

This framework, which is very light, they fasten before them when they are in the act of catching
birds, by which means they have both hands at liberty, and are completely concealed from the
view of the birds. The rod which they use is about twenty-four feet long, resembling a fishing-rod,
the parts of which are inserted within one another, and the whole contained in a walking-stick.

They
also carry with them horse-hair nooses of different sizes and strength, which they fasten to the
rod: likewise bird-lime, and a variety of calls for the different kinds of birds, with which
they imitate them to the greatest nicety. They take with them likewise two lines to which horse-hair
nooses are attached for catching larger birds, and a bag or net to
carry their game.

    
      
    Thus equipped, they sally forth, and as
      they proceed through the
    different covers, they use calls
    for such birds as generally resort
      there, which from constant
    practice is well known to them, and
      if any birds answer their call they
    prepare accordingly for catching
    them; supposing it to be a bevy of
      quail, they continue calling
    them, until they get quite close;
      they then arm the top of their
    rod with a feather smeared with bird-lime, and pass it through the
loop-hole in their frame of ambush, and to which they continue adding
other parts, until they have five or six out, which they use with
great dexterity, and touch one of the quail with the feather, which
adheres to them; they then withdraw the rod, arm it again, and touch
three or four more in the same manner before they attempt to secure
any of them.

In this way they catch all sorts of small birds not much larger than quail, on the ground and in trees.
If a brown or black partridge answers their call, instead of bird-lime, they fasten a horse-hair
noose to the top of their rod, and when they are close to the birds,
they keep dipping the top of their rod with considerable skill until
they fasten the noose on one of their necks; they then draw him in,
and go on catching others in the same way.

 Before we reached him the Mexicans were close upon his heels. He stopped suddenly, turned
short upon his pursuers, discharged his rifle, and saw one of his enemies fall from his horse.
After running a short distance again, the old pirate, finding that he would be taken and cut
to pieces, turned fiercely, and to the amazement of the enemy clubbed his gun and dashed among
them like a wounded tiger. By the time we reached him, his pursuers had fled like sparrows,
and in the ardour of the moment we followed them some distance, not seeing that our retreat
was cut off by another detachment of cavalry. Nothing was to be done but to fight our way through.
We were all of the same mind. They were about twenty in number and stood their ground while
we dashed among them, and for about five minutes a bloody conflict ensued. Then a detachment
was seen coming from the fort to our relief, and the Mexicans scampered away, leaving eight
of their men dead upon the field. We did not escape unscathed, for both the pirate and the
bee hunter were mortally wounded, and I received a saber cut across the forehead.

"The old man died without speaking as soon as we entered the fort. We bore my young friend
to his bed, dressed his wounds, and I watched beside him. He lay without complaint or manifesting
pain, until about midnight, when he spoke. I asked him what he wanted. 'Nothing,' he replied
with a sigh that seemed to rend his heart, and his eyes filled with tears as he continued his
'Poor Kate of Nacogdoches; her words were prophetic, Colonel,' Then he sang in a low voice,--

    'But toom' cam' the saddle, all bluidy to see,
    And hame cam' the steed, but hame never cam' he.'

"He spoke no more, and a few minutes afterward died. Poor Kate, who will tell this to thee?"

The last entry in Crockett's diary bears date March fifth. It is as follows:

"Pop, pop, pop! Bom, bom, bom! throughout the day.----No time for memorandums now.----Go ahead!----Liberty
and independence forever!"

Before daybreak the next morning, the final assault was made on the Alamo, and when Santa Ana
entered in person, after the terrible butchery, only six men, among whom was Colonel Crockett,
were found alive. The Colonel stood alone in an angle of the fort, the barrel of his broken
rifle in his right hand, and in his left a huge Bowie knife dripping blood. Across his forehead
was a terrible gash, while around him lay a barrier of dead Mexicans who had fallen at his
hands. At his feet lay the body of his friend Thimblerig with his knife driven to the hilt
in the throat of a Mexican, and his left hand clenched in his hair.

