BESSEMER, SIR HENRY, civil engineer and inventor, born at Charlton, Herts; of his many inventions
the chief is the process, named after him, of converting pig-iron into steel at once by blowing
a blast of air through the iron while in fusion till everything extraneous is expelled, and
only a definite quantity of carbon is left in combination, a process which has revolutionised
the iron and steel trade all over the world, leading, as has been calculated, to the production
of thirty times as much steel as before and at one-fifth of the cost per ton (1813-1898).

BESSEMER PROCESS. See BESSEMER.

BESSIÈRES, JEAN BAPTISTE, DUKE OF ISTRIA, marshal of France, born at Languedoc, of humble parentage;
rose from the ranks; a friend and one of the ablest officers of Napoleon, and much esteemed
by him; distinguished himself in the Italian campaign, in Egypt, and at Marengo; was shot at
Lützen the day before the battle (1768-1813).

BESSUS, a satrap of Bactria under Darius, who assassinated his master after the battle of Arbela,
but was delivered over by Alexander to Darius's brother, by whom he was put to death, 328 B.C.

BESTIARY, a name given to a class of books treating of animals, viewed allegorically.

BETHANY, village on E. of the Mount of Olives, abode of Lazarus and his sisters.

BETHEL (i. e. house of God), a place 11 m. N. of Jerusalem, scene of Jacob's dream, and famous
in the history of the patriarchs.

BETHENCOURT, a Norman baron, in 1425 discovered and conquered the Canaries, and held them as
a fief of the crown of Castile.

BETHLEHEM (3), a village 6 m. S. of Jerusalem, the birthplace of Jesus Christ and King David,
with a convent containing the Church of the Nativity; near it is the grotto where St. Jerome
translated the Bible into Latin.

BETHLEN-GABOR, prince of Transylvania, assumed the title of king of Hungary; assisted Bohemia
in the Thirty Years' war (1580-1629).

BETHNAL GREEN (129), an eastern suburb of London, a parliamentary borough, a poor district,
and scene of benevolent enterprises.

BETTERTON, THOMAS, born at Westminster, a tragic actor, and as such an interpreter of Shakespeare
on, it is believed, the traditional lines.

BETTINA, the Countess of Arnim, a passionate admirer of Goethe.

BETTY, W. HENRY, a boy actor, known as the Infant Roscius; amassed a fortune; lived afterwards
retired (1791-1874).

BEULE, a French statesman and archæologist; superintended excavations on the Acropolis of Athens;
held office under Macmahon (1826-1874).

BEUST, COUNT VON, a German statesman, born at Dresden; Minister for Foreign Affairs in Saxony;
of strong conservative leanings, friendly to Austria; became Chancellor of the Austro-Hungarian
empire; adopted a liberal policy; sympathised with France in the Franco-German war; resigned
office in 1871; left "Memoirs" (1809-1886).

BEUTHEN (36), a manufacturing town in Prussian Silesia, in the centre of a mining district.

BEVERLEY (12), a Yorkshire manufacturing town, 8 m. NW. of Hull, with a Gothic minster, which
contains the tombs of the Percys.

BEVERLEY, JOHN, a learned man, tutor to the Venerable Bede, archbishop of York, and founder
of a college for secular priests at Beverley; was one of the most learned men of his time; d. 721.

BEVIS OF SOUTHAMPTON, or HAMPTON, SIR, a famous knight of English mediæval romance, a man of
gigantic stature, whose marvellous feats are recorded in Drayton's "Polyolbion."

BEWICK, THOMAS, a distinguished wood-engraver, born in Northumberland, apprenticed to the trade
in Newcastle; showed his art first in woodcuts for his "History of Quadrupeds," the success
of which led to the publication of his "History of British Birds," in which he established
his reputation both as a naturalist, in the truest sense, and an artist (1753-1828).

BEWICK, WILLIAM, a great wood-engraver; did a cartoon from the Elgin Marbles for Goethe (1795-1866).

BEYPUR, a port in the Madras presidency, a railway terminus, with coal and iron in the neighbourhood.

BEYROUT (200), the most nourishing commercial city on the coast of Syria, and the port of Damascus,
from which it is distant 55 m.; a very ancient place.

BEZA, THEODORE, a French Protestant theologian, born in Burgundy, of good birth; professor
of Greek at Lausanne; deputed from Germany to intercede for the Huguenots in France, persuaded
the king of Navarre to favour the Protestants; settled in Geneva, became the friend and successor
of Calvin; wrote a book, "De Hereticis a Civili Magistratu Puniendis," in which he justified
the burning of Servetus, and a "History of the Reformed Churches" in France; died at 86 (1519-1605).

BEZANTS, Byzantine gold coins of varying weight and value, introduced by the Crusaders into
England, where they were current till the time of Edward III.

BÉZIERS (42), a manufacturing town in the dep. of Hérault, 49 m. SW. of Montpellier; manufactures
silk fabrics and confectionary.

BHAGALPUR` (69), a town in Bengal, on the right bank of the Ganges, 265 m. NW. of Calcutta.

BHAGAVAD GÎTÂ, (i. e. Song of Krishna), a poem introduced into the Mahâbhârata, divided into
three sections, and each section into six chapters, called Upanishads; being a series of mystical
lectures addressed by Krishna to his royal pupil Arjuna on the eve of a battle, from which
he shrunk, as it was with his own kindred; the whole conceived from the point of view or belief,
calculated to allay the scruples of Arjuna, which regards the extinction of existence as absorption
in the Deity.

BHAMO` (6), a town in Burmah, the chief centre of trade with China, conducted mainly by Chinese,
and a military station, only 40 m. from the Chinese frontier.

BHARTPUR` (68), a town in Rajputana, in a native state of the name; yielding wheat, maize,
cotton, sugar, with quarries of building stone; 30 m. W. of Agra; carries on an industry in
the manufacture of chowries.

BHARTRIHARI, Indian author of apothegms, who appears to have lived in the 11th century B.C.,
and to have been of royal rank.

BHILS, a rude pro-Aryan race of Central India, still untrained to settled life; number 750,000.

BHOD-PA, name given to the aborigines of Thibet, and applied by the Hindus to all the Thibetan
peoples.

BHOPAL` (952), a well-governed native state in Central India, under British protection, with
a capital city (70) of the same name; under a government that has been always friendly to Britain.

BHUTAN (20), an independent state in the Eastern Himalayas, with magnificent scenery; subsidised
by Britain; has a government like that of Thibet; religion the same, though the people are
at a low stage of civilisation; the country exports horses, musk, and salt.

BIAF`RA, BIGHT OF, a large bay in the Gulf of Guinea, in W. Africa; includes several islands,
and receives into it the waters of the Calabar rivers.

BIARD, AUGUSTE FRANÇOIS, French genre painter, born at Lyons; journeyed round the world, sketching
by the way; was successful in rendering burlesque groups (1800-1882).

BIARRITZ, a bathing-place on the Bay of Biscay, 6 m. SW. of Bayonne; became a place of fashionable
resort by the visits of the Empress Eugenie.

BIAS, one of the seven wise men of Greece, born at Priene, in Ionia; lived in the 6th century
B.C.; many wise sayings are ascribed to him; was distinguished for his indifference to possessions,
which moth and rust can corrupt, and thieves break through and steal.

BIBLE, THE (i. e. the Book par excellence, and not so much a book as a library of books), a
collection of sacred writings divided into two parts, the Old Testament and the New; the Old,
written in Hebrew, comprehending three groups of books, the Pentateuch, the Prophets, and the
Hagiographa, bearing on the religion, the history, the institutions, and the manners of the
Jews; and the New, written in Greek, comprehending the Four Gospels, the Acts of the Apostles,
and the Epistles. The Old Testament was translated into Greek at Alexandria by 72 Jews, 280
B.C., and is known as the Septuagint; and the whole book, Old and New, was translated into
Latin in a grotto near Bethlehem by St. Jerome, A.D. 385-404, and is known as the Vulgate,
after which the two came to be regarded by the Church as of equal divine authority and as sections
of one book. It may be permitted to note that the Bible is written throughout, not in a speculative
or a scientific, but a spiritual interest, and that its final aim is to guide men in the way
of life. The spirit in which it is composed is the spirit of conviction; its essence, both
in the root of it and the fruit of it, is faith, and that primarily in a moral power above,
and ultimately a moral principle within, both equally divine. The one principle of the book
is that loyalty to the divine commands is the one foundation of all well-being, individual
and social.

BIBLIA PAUPERUM (i. e. Bible of the Poor), a book consisting of some 50 leaves, with pictures
of scenes in the Life of Christ, and explanatory inscriptions, printed, from wooden blocks,
in the 15th century, and before the invention of printing by movable types.

BIBULUS, a colleague of Julius Cæsar; a mere cipher, a fainéant.

BICÊTRE, a hospital, originally a Carthusian monastery, in the S. side of Paris, with a commanding
view of the Seine and the city; since used for old soldiers, and now for confirmed lunatics.

BICHÂT, MARIE FRANÇOIS XAVIER, an eminent French anatomist and physiologist; physician to the
Hôtel-Dieu, Paris; one of the first to resolve the structure of the human body into, as "Sartor"
has it, "cellular, vascular, and muscular tissues;" his great work "Anatomie Générale appliquée
à la Physiologie et à la Medecine"; died at 31 (1771-1802).

BICKERSTAFF, ISAAC, an Irish dramatist of 18th century, whose name was adopted as a nom de
plume by Swift and Steele.

BICKERSTETH, EDWARD, English clergyman; author of several evangelical works, and one of the
founders of the Evangelical Alliance (1786-1850).

BICKERTON, SIR RICHARD, vice-admiral, served in several naval engagements, and died commander-in-chief
at Plymouth in 1792.

BIDDERY WARE, ware of tin, copper, lead, and zinc, made at Bidar, in India.

BIDDING PRAYER, an exhortation to prayer in some special reference, followed by the Lord's
Prayer, in which the congregation joins.

BIDDLE, JOHN, a Socinian writer in the time of Charles I. and the Commonwealth; much persecuted
for his belief, and was imprisoned, but released by Cromwell; regarded as the founder of English
Unitarianism; author of a "Confession of Faith concerning the Holy Trinity" (1615-1662).

BIDPAÏ, or PILPAÏ, the presumed author of a collection of Hindu fables of ancient date, in
extensive circulation over the East, and widely translated.

BIELA'S COMET, a comet discovered by Biela, an Austrian officer, in 1826; appears, sometimes
unobserved, every six years.

BIELEFELD (39), a manufacturing town in Westphalia, with a large trade in linen, and the centre
of the trade.

BIELU`KA, with its twin peaks, highest of the Altai Mountains, 11,100 ft.

BIENNE, LAKE OF, in the Swiss canton of Berne; the Aar is led into it when in flood, so as
to prevent inundation below; on the shores of it are remains of lake-dwellings, and an island
in it, St. Pierre, the retreat of Rousseau in 1765.

BIFRÖST, a bridge in the Norse mythology stretching from heaven to earth, of firm solidity
and exquisite workmanship, represented in the rainbow, of which the colours are the reflections
of the precious stones.

BIGELOW, ERASTUS BRIGHAM, American inventor of weaving machines, born in Massachusetts (1814-1879).

BIG-ENDIANS, a name given to the Catholics, as Little-endians is the name given to the Protestants,
in the imaginary kingdom of Lilliput, of which the former are regarded as heretics by the latter
because they break their eggs at the big end.

BIGGAR, a town in Lanarkshire, birthplace of Dr. John Brown and of the Gladstone ancestry.

BIGLOW, imaginary author of poems in the Yankee dialect, written by James Russell Lowell.

BIJAPUR`, city in the presidency of Bombay, once the capital of an extensive kingdom, now deserted,
but with remains of its former greatness.

BILBA`O (50), capital of the Basque prov. of Biscay, in Spain; a commercial city of ancient
date, famous at one time for its steel, specially in Queen Elizabeth's time, when a rapier
was called a "bilbo."

BILDERDIJK, WILLEM, Dutch poet, born at Amsterdam (1756-1831).

BILE, a fluid secreted from the blood by the liver to aid in digestion, the secretion of which
is most active after food.

BILLAUD-VARENNES, JEAN NICOLAS, "a grim, resolute, unrepentant" member of the Jacobin Club;
egged on the mob during the September massacres in the name of liberty; was president of the
Convention; assisted at the fall of Robespierre, but could not avert his own; was deported
to Surinam, and content to die there rather than return to France, which Bonaparte made him
free to do; died at Port-au-Prince (1756-1819).

BILLAUT, ADAM, the carpenter poet, called "Maître Adam," born at Nevers, and designated "Virgile
au Rabot" (a carpenter's plane); d. 1662.

BILLINGS, ROBERT WILLIAM, architect, born in London; delineator of old historical buildings;
his great work "Baronial and Ecclesiastical Antiquities of Scotland," richly illustrated; was
engaged in the restoration of old buildings, as well as delineating them (1813-1874).

BILLINGSGATE, a fish-market in London, below London Bridge; also a name given to low, coarse
language indulged in there.

BILLINGTON, ELIZABETH, née WEICHSEL, a celebrated singer, born in London, of German descent;
kept up her celebrity to the last; died at Venice in 1817.

BILNEY, THOMAS, martyr, born in Norfolk, a priest who adopted the reformed doctrine; was twice
arraigned, and released on promise not to preach, but could not refrain, and was at last burned
as a heretic in 1531.

BILOCATION, the power or state, ascribed to certain of the saints, of appearing in two places
at the same time.

BIMETALLISM, the employment of two metals (gold and silver) in the currency of a country as
legal tender at a fixed relative value, the ratio usually proposed being 1 to 15½.

BIMINI, a fabulous island with a fountain possessed of the virtue of restoring youth.

BINET, a French littérateur, translator of Horace and Virgil (1732-1812).

BINGEN, a manufacturing and trading town on the left bank of the Rhine, in Grand-Duchy of Hesse
Darmstadt, opposite which is the tower associated with the myth of Bishop Hatto.

BINGHAM, JOSEPH, an English divine, born at Wakefield; author of "Origines Ecclesiasticæ,"
a laborious and learned work; lost his all in the South-Sea Scheme and died (1668-1723).

BIOGENESIS, name of the theory that derives life from life, and opposed to ABIOGENESIS (q. v.).

BIOLOGY, the science of animal life in a purely physical reference, or of life in organised
bodies generally, including that of plants, in its varied forms and through its successive stages.

BION, a Greek pastoral poet of 3rd century B.C., born at Smyrna; a contemporary of Theocritus;
settled in Sicily; was poisoned, it is said, by a rival; little of his poetry survives.

BIOT, JEAN BAPTISTE, an eminent French mathematician, astronomer, and physicist, born at Paris;
professor of Physics in the College of France; took part in measuring an arc of the meridian
along with Arago; made observations on the polarisation of light, and contributed numerous
memoirs to scientific journals; wrote works on astronomy (1774-1862).

BIRAGUE, RENÉ DE, cardinal and chancellor of France, born at Milan; charged, especially by
contemporary historians, as the chief instigator of the St. Bartholomew Massacre (1507-1583).

BIRCH, SAMUEL, archæologist and Egyptologist, born in London; keeper of Oriental antiquities
in the British Museum; had an extensive knowledge of Egyptology, wrote largely, and contributed
articles on that and kindred archæological subjects (1813-1885).

BIRCH, THOMAS, antiquary, born in London; wrote a history of the Royal Society (1705-1765).

BIRCH-PFEIFFER, CHARLOTTE, actress, born in Stuttgart; acted in Berlin; wrote dramas (1800-1868).

BIRD, EDWARD, an English genre painter, born in Wolverhampton, settled in Bristol; among his
works are the "Choristers Rehearsing," the "Field of Chevy Chase," and the "Day after the Battle,"
pronounced his masterpiece (1772-1819).

BIRD, GOLDING, M.D., a great authority in kidney disease, of which he himself died (1815-1854).

BIRD, WILLIAM, a musician in the time of Elizabeth, composed madrigals; "Non Nobis, Domine,"
is ascribed to him (1563-1623).

BIRD'S NEST, the nest of a species of swift, formed from a marine plant that has been first
digested by a bird, and esteemed a great luxury by the Chinese.

BIREN, DUKE OF COURLAND, son of a peasant, favourite of the Russian Empress Anne; held the
reins of government even after her death; ruled with great cruelty; was banished to Siberia,
but recalled, and had his honours restored to him, which in six years after he relinquished
in favour of his eldest son (1687-1772).

BIRKBECK, GEORGE, M.D., a Yorkshireman, a zealous promoter all over the country of mechanics'
institutes, was founder of the London Institute, in consociation with Brougham and others interested
in the diffusion of useful knowledge (1776-1841).

BIRKENHEAD (100), in Cheshire, on the Mersey, opposite Liverpool and a suburb of it; a town
of rapid growth, due to the vicinity of Liverpool; has large shipbuilding-yards and docks.

BIRKENHEAD, SIR JOHN, a political writer, several times imprisoned during the Commonwealth
for his obtrusive royalism (1615-1679). 

3. If the battery has been allowed to stand beyond the time limit, open up one of the cells just
before beginning the process necessary to put the battery into service. If the separators are
found to be cracked, split, or warped, throw away all the separators from all the cells and put
in new ones. If the separators are in good condition, reassemble the cell and put the battery
into service.

Putting Battery into Service. 1. Fill the cells with electrolyte of
the correct specific gravity.

To do this, remove the vent plugs and pour in the electrolyte until
it rises to the bottom of the vent tubes. The correct specific gravities
of the electrolyte to be used are as follows:

(a) For Types DX, XC,
XE, XX and XXV, use 1.360 electrolyte.

BIRON, a madcap lord in "Love's Labour's Lost."

BIRON, BARON DE, marshal of France, born at Périgord; served bravely under Henry IV.; though
a Catholic, favoured the Huguenots; narrowly escaped at the Massacre of St. Bartholomew; was
killed at the siege of Épernay; carried a note-book with him everywhere, and so observant was
he that it passed into proverb, "You will find it in Biron's note-book" (1524-1592).

BIRON, DUC DE, son of the preceding; served also bravely under Henry IV.; but being a man of
no principle and discontented with the reward he got for his services, intrigued with the Duke
of Savoy and with Spain against Henry; was arrested and sent to the Bastille, where, after
trial, he was beheaded (1562-1602).

BISCAY, BAY OF, a bay in the Atlantic, extending from Cape Ortegal, in Spain, to Cape Finisterre,
in France, and 400 m. broad, of depth varying from 20 to 200 fathoms, and, under SW. winds
particularly, one of the stormiest of seas.

BISCHOF, KARL GUSTAV, chemist, born at Nüremberg, professor at Bonn; experimented on the inflammable
power of gas (1792-1870).

BISCHOFF, THEODOR LUDWIG WILHELM, distinguished biologist, born at Hanover; made a special
study of embryology; was professor of Anatomy at Heidelberg, of Physiology at Giessen, and
of both at Münich (1807-1882).

BISHOP, originally an overseer of souls, eventually an overseer of churches, especially of
a district, and conceived of by High-Churchmen as representing the apostles and deriving his
powers by transmission from them.

BISHOP, SIR HENRY ROWLEY, an English composer, born in London, composer and director of music
in Covent Garden Theatre for 14 years; produced 60 pieces, of which "Guy Mannering," "The Miller
and his Men," are still in favour; was for a brief space professor of Music in Edinburgh University,
and eventually held a similar chair in Oxford (1786-1855).

BISHOP OF HIPPO, St. Augustine, as once in office there.

BISHOP-AUCKLAND (10), a market-town 9 m. SW. of Durham, where the bishop of Durham has his
residence, a palatial structure; it has coal-mines close by; manufactures machinery and cotton
goods.

BISMARCK ARCHIPELAGO (188), an archipelago formerly called New Britain, NE. of New Guinea;
under the protectorate of Germany.

BISMARCK-SCHÖNHAUSEN, EDUARD LEOPOLD, PRINCE VON, born at Schönhausen; woke up into civil life
by the events of 1848; took a bold stand against revolutionary ideas and measures; conceived
the idea of freeing the several States of Germany from foreign control, and welding them into
one under the crown of Prussia. Summoned in 1862 by King William to be his political adviser,
his influence was at first distrusted, but the annexation of Sleswig-Holstein by force of arms
in 1863 raised him into general favour. His next feat, the humiliation of Austria at Königgrätz
in 1866, and the consequent erection of a German Confederation, with Prussia at its head, made
him the idol of the nation. His treatment of Napoleon III. provoked the latter into a declaration
of war, and to an advance on the part of the French against Berlin. To the surprise of nearly
all Europe, the Germans proved to be a nation of soldiers, marshalled as army never was before,
and beat the French ignominiously back from the Rhine. Count Bismarck had the satisfaction
of seeing the power of France, that still threatened, as well as that of Austria, helpless
at his feet, the German empire restored under a Hohenzollern king, and himself installed as
chancellor of the monarch he had served so well. Nothing he did after this--though he reformed
the coinage, codified the law, established protection, increased the army, and repressed Socialism--equalled
this great feat, and for this a grateful nation must ever honour his name. If he ceased to
be chancellor of Germany on the accession of William II., it was because the young king felt
he would have a freer hand with a minister more likely to be under his control (1815-1898).

BISSA`GOS, a group of some 20 volcanic islands off the coast of Senegambia, with a large negro
population; yield tropical products, and belong now to Portugal.

BISSEN, a Danish sculptor, born in Sleswig; a pupil of Thorwaldsen; intrusted by him to finish
a statue he left unfinished at his death; he produced some fine works, but his best known are
his "Cupid Sharpening his Arrow" and "Atalanta Hunting" (1798-1868).

BITHUR, a town on the right bank of the Ganges, 12 m. above Cawnpore, where Nana Sahib lived,
and concocted the conspiracy which developed into the mutiny of 1857.

BITHYNIA, a country in the NW. of Asia Minor, anciently so called; the people of it were of
Thracian origin.

BITLIS (25), a high-lying town in Asiatic Turkey, 62 m. W. of Van; stands in a valley 8470
ft. above, the sea-level, with a population of Mohammedans and Armenians.

BITUMEN, an inflammable mineral substance, presumably of vegetable origin, called Naphtha when
liquid and light-coloured, Petroleum when less fluid and darker, Maltha when viscid, and Asphalt
when solid.

BITZIUS, a Swiss author, composed stories of Swiss life under the nom de plume of Jeremias
Gotthelf, fascinating from their charming simplicity and truth; he is much admired by Ruskin;
was by profession a Protestant pastor, the duties of which he continued to discharge till his
death (1797-1854).

BIZERTA (10), a seaport of Tunis, northernmost town in Africa, 38 m. NW. of the capital, with
an excellent harbour.

BIZET, GEORGES, an operatic composer, born at Paris; his greatest work "Carmen"; died of heart-disease
shortly after its appearance (1838-1875).

BJÖRNSEN, a Norwegian author, born at Kvikne; composed tales, dramas, and lyrics, all of distinguished
merit and imbued with a patriotic spirit; his best play "Sigurd the Bastard"; an active and
zealous promoter of liberalism, sometimes extreme, both in religion and politics; his writings
are numerous, and they rank high; his songs being highly appreciated by his countrymen; b. 1832.

BLACK, JOSEPH, a celebrated chemist, born at Bordeaux, of Scotch parents; the discoverer of
what has been called latent heat, but what is really transformed energy; professor of Chemistry,
first in Glasgow, then in Edinburgh, where his lectures were very popular; his discoveries
in chemistry were fruitful in results (1728-1799).

BLACK, WILLIAM, novelist, born in Glasgow; started life as a journalist in connection with
the Morning Star; has written several novels, over 30 in number, about the West Highlands of
Scotland, rich in picturesque description; the best known and most admired, "A Daughter of
Heth," the "Madcap Violet," "Macleod of Dare," "The Strange Adventures of a Phæton," and "A
Princess of Thule." "But when are you going to write a book, Mr. Black?" said Carlyle to him
one day (1841-1898).

BLACK ART, name given to the presumed power of evoking evil spirits.

BLACK ASSIZE, a plague at Oxford in 1557, which carried off 300 victims; caught at the assize
from the prisoners under trial.

BLACK DEATH, a name given to a succession of fatal epidemics that devastated the world from
China to Ireland in the 14th century, believed to be the same as the Oriental plague, though
attended with peculiar symptoms; the most serious was that of 1348, which, as is reckoned,
stripped England alone of one-third of its inhabitants.

BLACK FOREST (488), a wooded mountain chain 4000 ft. high (so called from the black pines that
cover it), which runs parallel with the Rhine, and E. of it, through Würtemberg and Baden,
from the Swiss frontier to Carlsruhe; is remarkable for its picturesque scenery and its mineral
wealth; it possesses many health resorts, as Baden-Baden and Wildbad, where are mineral springs;
silver, copper, cobalt, lead, and iron are wrought in many places; the women and children of
the region make articles of woodwork, such as wooden clocks, &c.

BLACK FRIARS, monks of the Dominican order; name of a district in London where they had a monastery.

BLACK HOLE OF CALCUTTA, a confined apartment 13 ft. square, into which 146 English prisoners
were crammed by the orders of Surajah Dowia on the 19th June 1756; their sufferings were excruciating,
and only 23 survived till morning.

BLACK LANDS, lands in the heart of Russia, extending between the Carpathians and the Urals,
constituting one-third of the soil, and consisting of a layer of black earth or vegetable mould,
of from 3 to 20 ft. in thickness, and a chief source, from its exhaustless fertility, of the
wealth of the country.

BLACK MONDAY, Easter Monday in 1351, remarkable for the extreme darkness that prevailed, and
an intense cold, under which many died.

