[Footnote 2517: 'Mallet du Pan, "Mémoires." I. 303. Letter of Malouet, June 29: "The king is
calm and perfectly resigned. On the 19th he wrote to his confessor: "Come, sir; never have
I had so much need of your consolations. I am done with men; I must now turn my eyes to heaven.
Sad events are announced for to-morrow. I shall have courage.' "--"Lettres de Coray au Protopsalte
de Smyrne" (translated by M. de Queux de Saint-Hilaire,) 145, May 1st: "The court is in peril
every moment. Do not be surprised if I write you some day that his unhappy king and his wife
are assassinated."."]

[Footnote 2518: Rétif de la Bretonne, "Nuits de Paris," Vol. XVI. (analyzed by Lacroix in "Bibliothèque
de Rétif de la Bretonne" ).--Rétif is the man in Paris who lived the most in the streets and
had the most intercourse with the low class.]

[Footnote 2519: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3276. Letter from the Directory of Clamecy, March
27, and official report of the civil commissioners, March 31, 1792, on the riot of the raftsmen.
Tracu, their captain, armed with a cudgel ten feet long, compelled peaceful people to march
along with him, threatening to knock them down; he tried to get the head of Peynier, the clerk
of the Paris dealers in wood. "I shall have a good supper to-night," he exclaimed "(or the
head of that bastard Peynier is a fat one, and I'll stick it in my Pot!")]

[Footnote 2520: Letters of Coray, 126. "This pillaging has lasted three days, Jan. 22, 23 and
24, and we expect from hour to hour similar riots still more terrible."]

[Footnote 2521: Mercier (" Tableau de Paris") had already noticed before the Revolution this
habit of the Parisian workman, especially among the lowest class of workmen.]

[Footnote 2522: Mortimer-Ternaux, 1.346 (letter of June 21, 1792).]

[Footnote 2523: Buchez et Roux, VIII. 25 (session of the National Assembly, Nov.10, 1790).
Petition presented by Danton in the name of the forty-eight sections of Paris.]

[Footnote 2524: Buchez et Roux, XIV. 268 (May. 1792). It was not long before an opportunity occurred
for showing his gratitude and favour. Ellesmere resigned the chancellorship on the 5th of March
1616/7, and on the 7th the great seal was bestowed upon Bacon, with
the title of lord keeper.

 In his book "Hitler
Speaks" page 208 Rauschning reports Hitler as saying: "It is true that the masses are uncritical,
but not in the way these idiots of Marxists and reactionaries imagine. The masses have their
critical faculties, too, but they function differently from those of the private individual.
The masses are like an animal they obeys instincts. They do not reach conclusions by reasoning.
My success in initiating the greatest people's movement of all time is due to my never having
done anything in violation of the vital laws and feelings of the mass. These feelings may be
primitive, but they have the resistance and indestructibility of natural qualities. A once
intensely felt experience in the life of the masses, like ration cards and inflation, will
never again be driven out of their blood. The masses have a simple system of thinking and feeling,
and anything that cannot be fitted into it disturbs them. It is only because I take their vital
laws into consideration that I can rule them."]

[Footnote 2526: Moniteur, XII. 254.--According to the royal almanac of 1792 the Paris national
guard comprises 32,000 men, divided into sixty battalions, to which must be added the battalions
of pikemen, spontaneously organized and composed, especially of the non-active citizens.--Cf.
in "Les Révolutions de Paris," Prudhomme's Journal, the engravings which represent this sort
of procession.]

[Footnote 2527: Buchez et Roux, XV. 122. Declaration of Lareynie, a volunteer soldier in the
Ile Saint-Louis battalion.--To those which he names I add Huguenin, because on the 20th of
June it was his duty to read the petition of the rioters; also Saint-Huruge, because he led
the mob with Santerre.--About Rossignol, Cf. Dauban, "La Demagogie à Paris," 369 (according
to the manuscript memoirs of Mercier du Rocher). He reaches Fontenay Aug.21, 1793, with the
representative Bourbotte, Momoro, commissary-general, three adjutants, Moulins, Hasard, the
ex-priest, Grammont, an ex-actor and several prostitutes. "The prettiest shared her bed with
Bourbotte and Rossignol." They lodge in a mansion to which seals are affixed. "The seals were
broken, and jewelry, dresses, and female apparel were confiscated for the benefit of the general
and his followers. There was nothing, even down to the crockery, which did not become the booty
of these self-styled republicans"]

[Footnote 2528: Mathon de la Varenne, "Histoire particulière des événements qui ont eu lieu
en juin, juillet, août, et septembre, 1792," p. 23. (He knew Saint-Huruge personally.) Saint-Huruge
had married an actress at Lyons in 1778. On returning to Paris he learned through the police
that his wife was a trollop, and he treated her accordingly. Enraged, she looked up Saint-Huruge's
past career, and found two charges against him, one for the robbery and assassination of an
alien merchant, and the other for infanticide; she obtained his incarceration by a lettre-de-cachet.
He was shut in Charenton from Jan. 14, 1781, to December, 1784, when he was transferred to
another prison and afterwards exiled to his estates, from which he fled to England. He returned
to France on the outbreak of the Revolution.]

[Footnote 2529: With respect to connivance, Cf. Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 132 and the following
pages.--Mallet du Pan, "Mémoires," I. 300. Letter of the Abbé de Pradt, June 21, 1795. "The
insurrection had been announced for several days... The evening before, 150 deputies so many
Jacobins, had dined at their great table in the Champs-Elysées, and distributed presents of
wine and food."]

[Footnote 2530: Moniteur, XII. 642 (session of June 12, 1792, narrative of M. Delfaux, deputy).--The
execution of Damiens was witnessed by Parisians still living, while "Charles IX.," by Marie
Chénier, was at this time the most popular tragedy.--"The French people," says M. Ferières
(I. 35), "went away from its representation eager for vengeance and tormented with a thirst
for blood. At the end of the fourth act a lugubrious bell announces the moment of the massacre,
and the audience, drawing in its breath sighing and groaning, furiously exclaims silence! silence!
as if fearing that the sound of this death-knell had not stirred the heart to its very depths."--"Révolutions
de Paris," number for June 23, 1792. "The speakers, under full sail, distributed their parts
amongst themselves," one against the staffs, another against priests, another against judges,
department, and the ministers, and especially the king. "Some there are, and we agree in this
with the sieur Delfaux, who pass the measure and advise murder through gestures, eyes, and
speech."]

[Footnote 2531: Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 133.--There is the same calculation and the same work-shop
in the faubourg Saints-Marcel (report of Saint-Prix, commandant of the Val-de-Grâce battalion).
"Minds remained tranquil until a club was opened at the Porte Saint-Marcel; now they are all
excited and divided. This dub, which is in contact with that of Santerre, urges citizens to
go armed to-morrow (June 20) to the National Assembly and to the king's Palace, notwithstanding
the acts of the constituted authorities."]

[Footnote 2532: Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 136. This program is first presented to the council-general
of the commune by Lazowski and nine others (June 16). The council-general rejects it and refers
to the law. "The petitioners, on learning this decision, loudly declare that it shall not prevent
them from assembling in arms" (Buchez et Roux, XV. 120, official report by M. Borie).--The
bibliography of documents relating to the 20th of June is given by Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 397
and following pages. The principal documents are found in Mortimer-Ternaux, in "L'Histoire
Parlementaire" of Buchez et Roux, and in the Revue Rétrospective.]

[Footnote 2533: "Correspondance de Mirabeau et M. de la Marck," III. 319. Letter of the Count
de Montmorin, June 21, 1792. "The whole battalion was by no means ready to march."--Official
report of the Montreuil section. Bonneau, the commander concludes to march only under protest
and to avoid spilling blood.]

[Footnote 2536: Deposition of Lareyrnie, a volunteer soldier of the Ile Saint-Louis battalion.]

[Footnote 2537: Deposition of M. Witinghof, lieutenant-general.--"Correspondence of Mirabeau
and M. de la Marck." Letter of M. de Montmorin, June 21. "At two o'clock the gathering amounted
to 8,000 or 10,000 persons."]

[Footnote 2538: Moniteur, XII. 717. "What a misfortune for the freemen who have transferred
their powers to you, to find themselves reduced to the cruel necessity of dipping their hands
in the blood of conspirators!" etc.--The character of the leaders is apparent in their style.
The incompetent copyist who drew up the address did not even know the meaning of words. "The
people so wills it, and its head is of more account than that of crowned despots. A change to
a legato style, the substitution of a single oboe d' amore for tutti violins, the addition of delicate
ornaments indicative of a slower pace, and the noble stream of melody preserve its identity while changing
its aspect. It seems to be the composition of a school master turned public letter
writer, at a penny a page.]

[Footnote 2539: Hua, "Mémoires," 134.]

[Footnote 2540: Moniteur, XII. 718.]

[Footnote 2541: "Chronique des cinquante jours," by Roederer, syndic-attorney of the department.]

[Footnote 2542: Hua, 134.--Bourrienne, "Mémoires," I. 49. (He was with Bonaparte in a restaurant,
rue Saint-Honoré, near the Palais-Royal.) "On going out we saw a troop coming from the direction
of the market, which Bonaparte estimated at from 5,000 to 6,000 men, all in rags and armed
in the oddest manner, yelling and shouting the grossest provocations, and turning towards the
Tuileries. It was certainly the vilest and most abject lot that could be found in the faubourgs.
'Let us follow that rabble,' said Bonaparte to me." They ascend the terrace on the river bank.
"I could not easily describe the surprise and indignation which these scenes excited in him.
He did not like so much weakness and forbearance. 'Che coglione! he exclaimed in a loud tone.
'How could they let those rascals in? Four or five hundred of them ought to have been swept
off with cannon, and the rest would still be running!'"]

[Footnote 2543: "Chronique des cinquante jours," by Roederer.--Deposition of Lareynie.]

[Footnote 2544: Deposition of Lareynie.]

[Footnote 2545: Report of Saint-Prix.]

[Footnote 2546: Report by Mouchet.--Deposition of Lareynie. (The interference of Sergent and
Boucher-Réne is contested, but Raederer thinks it very probable.)]

[Footnote 2547: M. Pinon, in command of the 5th legion, and M. Vannot, commanding a battalion,
tried to shut the iron gate of the archway, but are driven back and told: "You want thousands
to perish, do you, to save one man?" This significant expression is heard over and over again
during the Revolution, and it explains the success of the insurrections.--Alexandre, in command
of the Saint-Marcel battalion, says in his report: "Why make a resistance which can be of no
usefulness to the public, one which may even compromise it a great deal more?..."]

[Footnote 2548: Deposition of Lareynie. The attitude of Santerre is here clearly defined. At
the foot of the staircase in the court he is stopped by a group of citizens, who threaten "to
make him responsible for any harm done," and tell him: "You alone are the author of this unconstitutional
assemblage; it is you alone who have led away these worthy people. You are a rascal!"--"The
tone of these honest citizens in addressing the sieur Santerre made him turn pale. But, encouraged
by a glance from the sieur Legendre, he resorted to a hypocritical subterfuge, and addressing
the troop, he said: 'Gentlemen, draw up a report, officially stating that I refuse to enter
the king's apartments.' The only answer the crowd made, accustomed to divining what Santerre
meant, was to hustle the group of honest citizens out of the way."]

[Footnote 2549: Depositions of four of the national guard, Lecrosnier, Gossé, Bidault, and
Guiboult.--Reports of Acloque and de Lachesnaye, commanding officers of the legion.--"Chronique
des cinquante jours," by Roederer.--Ibid. p.65: "I have to state that, during the Convention,
the butcher Legendre declared to Boissy d'Anglas, from whom I had it, that the plan was to
kill the king."--Prudhomme, "Crimes de la Révolution," III.43. "The king was to be assassinated.
We heard citizens all in rags say that it was a pity; he looks like a good sort of a bastard."]

[Footnote 2550: Madame Campan, "Mémoires," II. 212. "M. Vannot, commander of the battalion,
had turned aside a weapon aimed at the king. One of the grenadiers of the Filles-Saint-Thomas
warded off a blow with a sword, aimed in the same direction with the same intention."]

[Footnote 2551: Declaration of Lachesnaye, in command of the legion.--Moniteur, XII. 719 (evening
session of June 20). Speech of M. Alos, an eye-witness. Prudhomme, in his journal, calls her
"the Austrian panther," which word well expresses the idea of her in the faubourgs. A prostitute
stops before her and bestows on her a volley of curses. The reply of the queen is: "Have I
ever done you any wrong?" "No; but it is you who do so much harm to the nation." "You have
been deceived," replies the queen. When you loved me I was happy then." The prostitute burst
into tears. "Ah. Madame, forgive me! I did not know you. I see that you have been very good."
Santerre, however, wishing to put an end to this emotion, cries out: "The girl is drunk "--(Madame
Campan, II. 214.--Report by Mandat, an officer of the legion.)]

[Footnote 2554: Mortimer-Ternaux, I. 213. "Citizens, you have just legally made known your
will to the hereditary representative of the nation; you have done this with the dignity, with
the majesty of a free people! There is no doubt that your demands will be reiterated by the
eighty-three departments, while the king cannot refrain from acquiescing in the manifest will
of the people."]

CHAPTER VI. THE BIRTH OF THE TERRIBLE PARIS COMMUNE.

I.--Indignation of the Constitutionalists.

     Cause of their weakness.--The Girondins renew the attack.
     --Their double plan.

As the blow has missed the target, it must be repeated. This is the more urgent, inasmuch as
the faction has thrown off the mask and "honest people"[2601] on all sides become indignant
at seeing the Constitution subject to the arbitrariness of the lowest class. Nearly all the
higher administrative bodies, seventy-five of the department directories,[2602] give in their
adhesion to Lafayette's letter, or respond by supporting the proclamation, so noble and so
moderate, in which the King, recounting the violence done to him, maintains his legal rights
with mournful, inflexible gentleness. Many of the towns, large and small, thank him for his
firmness, the addresses being signed by "the notables of the place,"[2603] chevaliers of St.
Louis, former officials, judges and district-administrators, physicians, notaries, lawyers,
recorders, post-masters, manufacturers, merchants, people who are settled down, in short the
most prominent and the most respected men. At Paris, a similar petition, drawn up by two former
Constituents, contains 247 pages of signatures attested by 99 notaries.[2604] Even in the council-general
of the commune a majority is in favor of publicly censuring the mayor Pétion, the syndic-attorney
Manuel, and the police administrators Panis, Sergent, Viguer, and Perron.[2605] On the evening
of June 20th, the department council orders an investigation; it follows this up; it urges
it on; it proves by authentic documents the willful inaction, the hypocritical connivance,
the double-dealing of the syndic-attorney and the mayor;[2606] it suspends both from their
functions, and cites them before the courts as well as Santerre and his accomplices. Lafayette,
finally, adding to the weight of his opinion the influence of his presence, appears at the
bar of the National Assembly and demands "effectual" measures against the usurpations of the
Jacobin sect, insisting that the instigators of the riot of the 20th of June be punished "as
guilty of lése-nation." As a last and still more significant symptom, his proceedings are approved
of in the Assembly by a majority of more than one hundred votes.[2607]

All this must and will be crushed out. For on the side of the Constitutionalists, whatever
they may be, whether King, deputies, ministers, generals, administrators, notables or national-guards,
the will to act evaporates in words; and the reason is, they are civilized beings, long accustomed
to the ways of a regular community, interested from father to son in keeping the law, disconcerted
at the thought of consequences, upset by multifaceted ideas, unable to comprehend that, in
the state of nature to which France has reverted, but one idea is of any account, that of the
man who, in accepting a declared war, meets the offensive with the offensive, loads his gun,
descends into the street and contends with the savage destroyers of human society.----Nobody
comes to the support of Lafayette, who alone has the courage to take the lead; about one hundred
men muster at the rendezvous named by him in the Champs-Élysées. They agree to march to the
Jacobin club the following day and close it, provided the number is increased to three hundred;
but the next day only thirty turn up. Lafayette can do no more than leave Paris and write a
letter containing another protest.--Protestations, appeals to the Constitution, to the law,
to public interest, to common sense, well-reasoned arguments; this side will never resort to
anything else than speeches and paperwork; and, in the coming conflict words will be of no
use.--Imagine a quarrel between two men, one ably presenting his case and the other indulging
in little more than invective; the latter, having encountered an enormous mastiff on his road,
has caressed him, enticed him, and led him along with him as an auxiliary. To the mastiff,
clever argumentation is only so much unmeaning sound; with his eager eyes fixed on his temporary
master he awaits only his signal to spring on the adversaries he points out. On the 20th of
June he has almost strangled one of them, and covered him with his slaver. On the 21st,[2608]
he is ready to spring again. He continues to growl for fifty days, at first sullenly and then
with terrific energy. On the 25th of June, July 14 and 27, August 3 and 5, he again makes a
spring and is kept back only with great difficulty.[2609] Already on one occasion, July 29th,
his fangs are wet with human gore.[2610]--At each turn of the parliamentary debate the defenseless
Constitutionalists beholds those open jaws before him; it is not surprising that he throws
to this dog, or allows to be thrown to him, all the decrees demanded by the Girondists as a
bone for him to gnaw on.--Sure of their strength the Girondists renew the attack, and the plan
of their campaign seems to be skillfully prepared. They are quite willing to retain the King
on his throne, but on the condition that he shall be a mere puppet; that he shall recall the
patriot ministers, allow them to appoint the Dauphin's tutor, and that Lafayette shall be removed;[2611]
otherwise the Assembly will pass the act of de-thronement and seize the executive power. Such
is the defile with two issues in which they have placed the Assembly and the King. If the King
balks at leaving by the first door, the Assembly, equally nonplused, will leave through the
second; in either case, as the all-powerful ministers of the submissive King or as executive
delegates of the submissive Assembly, the Girondists will become the masters of France.

II.--Pressure on the King.

     Pétion and Manual brought to the Hôtel-de-ville.--The
     Ministry obliged to resign.--Jacobin agitation against the
     King.--Pressure on the Assembly.--Petition of the Paris
     Commune.--Threats of the petitioners and of the galleries.
     --Session of August 8th.--Girondist strategy foiled in two
     ways. 

A prettier and no less authentic story than that of his brother's forbidden organ-volume tells how,
on his return from one of the many holiday expeditions which Bach made to Hamburg on foot
to hear the great Dutch organist Reinken, he sat outside an inn longing for the dinner he could not
afford, when two herring-heads were flung out of the window, and he found in each of them a ducat
with which he promptly paid his way, not home, but back to Hamburg. At Hamburg, also, Keiser
was laying the foundations of German opera on a splendid scale which must have fired Bach's imagination
though it never directly influenced his style. On the other hand Keiser's church music was of
immense importance in his development. According
to them, the palace of the monarch belongs to the public; people may enter it as they would
a coffee-house; in any event, as the municipality is occupied with other matters, it cannot
be expected to keep people out. "Is there nothing else to guard in Paris but the Tuileries
and the King?"[2612]--Another maneuver consists in rendering the King's instruments powerless.
Honorable and inoffensive as the new ministers may be, they never appear in the Assembly without
being hooted at in the tribunes. Isnard, pointing with his finger to the principal one, exclaims:
"That is a traitor!"[2613] Every popular outburst is imputed to them as a crime, while Guadet
declares that, "as royal counselors, they are answerable for any disturbances" that the double
veto might produce.[2614] Not only does the faction declare them guilty of the violence provoked
by itself, but, again, it demands their lives for the murders which it commits. "France must
know," says Vergniaud, "that hereafter ministers are to answer with their heads for any disorders
of which religion is the pretext."--"The blood just spilt at Bordeaux," says Ducos, "may be
laid at the door of the executive power. "[2615] La Source proposes to "punish with death,"
not alone the minister who is not prompt in ordering the execution of a decree, but, again,
the clerks who do not fulfill the minister's instructions. Always death on every occasion,
and for every one who is not of the sect. Under this constant terror, the ministers resign
in a body, and the King is required at once to appoint others; meanwhile, to increase the danger
of their position, the Assembly decrees that hereafter they shall "be answerable for each other."
It is evident that they are aiming at the King over his minister's shoulders, while the Girondists
leave nothing unturned to render government to him impossible. The King, again, signs this
new decree; he declines to protest; to the persecution he is forced to undergo he opposes nothing
but silence, sometimes a simple, frank, good-hearted expression,[2616] some kindly, touching
complaining, which seems like a suppressed moan.[2617] But dogmatic obstinacy and impatient
ambition are willfully deaf to the most sorrowful strains! His sincerity passes for a new false-hood.
Vergniaud, Brissot, Torné, Condorcet, in the tribune, charge him with treachery, demand from
the Assembly the right of suspending him,[2618] and give the signal to their Jacobin auxiliaries.--At
the invitation of the parent club, the provincial branches bestir themselves, while all other
instruments of agitation belonging to the revolutionary machine are likewise put in motion,--gatherings
on the public squares, homicidal announcements on the walls, incendiary resolutions in the
clubs, shouting in the tribunes, insulting addresses and seditious deputations at the bar of
the National Assembly.[2619] After the working of this system for a month, the Girondists regard
the King as subdued, and, on the 26th of July, Guadet, and then Brissot, in the tribune, make
their last advances to him, and issue the final summons.[2620] A profound delusion! He refuses,
the same as on the 20th of June: "Girondist ministers, Never!"

Since he bars one of the two doors, they will pass out at the other, and, if the Girondists
cannot rule through him, they will rule without him. Pétion, in the name of the Commune, appears
personally and proposes a new plan, demanding the dethronement. "This important measure once
passed,"[2621] he says, "the confidence of the nation in the actual dynasty being very doubtful,
we demand that a body of ministers, jointly responsible, appointed by the National Assembly,
but, as the constitutional law provides, outside of itself, elected by the open vote of freemen,
be provisionally entrusted with the executive power." Through this open vote the suffrage will
be easily controlled. This is but one more decree extorted, like so many others, the majority
for a long time having been subject to the same pressure as the King. "If you refuse to respond
to our wishes," as a placard of the 23rd of June had already informed them, "our hands are
lifted, and we shall strike all traitors wherever they can be found, even amongst yourselves."[2622]--"Court
favorites," says a petition of August 6, "have seats in your midst. Let their inviolability
perish if the national will must always tamely submit to that lethal power!"--In the Assembly
the yells from the galleries are frightful; the voices of those who speak against dethronement
are overpowered; so great are the hooting, the speakers are driven out of the tribune.[2623]
Sometimes the "Right" abandons the discussion and leaves the chamber. The insolence of the
galleries goes so far that frequently almost the entire Assembly murmurs while they applaud;
the majority, in short, loudly expresses anger at its bondage.[2624]--Let it be careful! In
the tribunes and at the approaches to the edifice, stand the Federates, men who have a tight
grip. They will force it to vote the decisive measure, the accusation of Lafayette, the decree
under which the armed champion of the King and the Constitution must fall. The Girondists,
to make sure of it, exact a call of the house; in this way the names are announced and printed,
thus designating to the populace the opponents of the measure, so that none of them are sure
of getting to their homes safe and sound.--Lafayette, however, a liberal, a democrat, and a
royalist, as devoted to the Revolution as to the Law, is just the man, who, through his limited
mental grasp, his disconnected political conceptions, and the nobleness of his contradictory
sentiments, best represents the present opinion of the Assembly, as well as that of France.[2625]
Moreover, his popularity, his courage, and his army are the last refuge. The majority feels
that in giving him up they themselves are given up, and, by a vote of 400 to 224, it acquits
him.--On this side, again, the strategy of the Girondists is found erroneous. Power slips away
from them the second time. Neither the King nor the Assembly have consented to restore it to
them, while they can no longer leave it suspended in the air, or defer it until a better opportunity,
and keep their Jacobin acolytes waiting. The feeble leash restraining the revolutionary dog
breaks in their hands; the dog is free and in the street

III.--The Girondins have worked for the benefit of the Jacobins.

     The armed force sent away or disorganized.--The Federates
     summoned.--Brest and Marseilles send men.--Public sessions
     of administrative bodies.--Permanence of administrative
     bodies and of the sections.----Effect of these two
     measures.--The central bureau of the Hôtel-de-ville.--Origin
     and formation of the revolutionary Commune.

