Then it woke up suddenly, and began, in the columns of the KINGSHAMPSTEAD GUARDIAN, an indignant,
confused outcry. I was treated to an open letter, signed "Junius Secundus," and I replied in
provocative terms. There were two thinly attended public meetings at different ends of the
constituency, and then I had a correspondence with my old friend Parvill, the photographer,
which ended in my seeing a deputation.

My impression is that it consisted of about eighteen or twenty people. They had had to come
upstairs to me and they were manifestly full of indignation and a little short of breath. There
was Parvill himself, J.P., dressed wholly in black--I think to mark his sense of the occasion--and
curiously suggestive in his respect for my character and his concern for the honourableness
of the KINGHAMPSTEAD GUARDIAN editor, of Mark Antony at the funeral of Cesar. There was Mrs.
Bulger, also in mourning; she had never abandoned the widow's streamers since the death of
her husband ten years ago, and her loyalty to Liberalism of the severest type was part as it
were of her weeds. There was a nephew of Sir Roderick Newton, a bright young Hebrew of the
graver type, and a couple of dissenting ministers in high collars and hats that stopped halfway
between the bowler of this world and the shovel-hat of heaven. There was also a young solicitor
from Lurky done in the horsey style, and there was a very little nervous man with a high brow
and a face contracting below as though the jawbones and teeth had been taken out and the features
compressed. The rest of the deputation, which included two other public-spirited ladies and
several ministers of religion, might have been raked out of any omnibus going Strandward during
the May meetings. They thrust Parvill forward as spokesman, and manifested a strong disposition
to say "Hear, hear!" to his more strenuous protests provided my eye wasn't upon them at the time.

I regarded this appalling deputation as Parvill's apologetic but quite definite utterances
drew to an end. I had a moment of vision. Behind them I saw the wonderful array of skeleton
forces that stand for public opinion, that are as much public opinion as exists indeed at the
present time. The whole process of politics which bulks so solidly in history seemed for that
clairvoyant instant but a froth of petty motives above abysms of indifference....

Some one had finished. I perceived I had to speak.

"Very well," I said, "I won't keep you long in replying. I'll resign if there isn't a dissolution
before next February, and if there is I shan't stand again. You don't want the bother and expense
of a bye-election (approving murmurs) if it can be avoided. But I may tell you plainly now
that I don't think it will be necessary for me to resign, and the sooner you find my successor
the better for the party. The Lords are in a corner; they've got to fight now or never, and
I think they will throw out the Budget. Then they will go on fighting. It is a fight that will
last for years. They have a sort of social discipline, and you haven't. You Liberals will find
yourselves with a country behind you, vaguely indignant perhaps, but totally unprepared with
any ideas whatever in the matter, face to face with the problem of bringing the British constitution
up-to-date. Anything may happen, provided only that it is sufficiently absurd. If the King
backs the Lords--and I don't see why he shouldn't--you have no Republican movement whatever
to fall back upon. You lost it during the Era of Good Taste. The country, I say, is destitute
of ideas, and you have no ideas to give it. I don't see what you will do.... For my own part,
I mean to spend a year or so between a window and my writing-desk."

I paused. "I think, gentlemen," began Parvill, "that we hear all this with very great regret...."

4

My estrangement from Margaret stands in my memory now as something that played itself out within
the four walls of our house in Radnor Square, which was, indeed, confined to those limits.
I went to and fro between my house and the House of Commons, and the dining-rooms and clubs
and offices in which we were preparing our new developments, in a state of aggressive and energetic
dissociation, in the nascent state, as a chemist would say. I was free now, and greedy for
fresh combination. I had a tremendous sense of released energies. I had got back to the sort
of thing I could do, and to the work that had been shaping itself for so long in my imagination.
Our purpose now was plain, bold, and extraordinarily congenial. We meant no less than to organise
a new movement in English thought and life, to resuscitate a Public Opinion and prepare the
ground for a revised and renovated ruling culture.

For a time I seemed quite wonderfully able to do whatever I wanted to do. Shoesmith responded
to my first advances. We decided to create a weekly paper as our nucleus, and Crupp and I set
to work forthwith to collect a group of writers and speakers, including Esmeer, Britten, Lord
Gane, Neal, and one or two younger men, which should constitute a more or less definite editorial
council about me, and meet at a weekly lunch on Tuesday to sustain our general co-operations. (8)
Lit. "plain of the Cayster," like Ceramon-agora, "the market of the Ceramians" above, the
name of a town.

From this place he marched two stages--ten parasangs--to Thymbrium, a populous city. Here, by the
side of the road, is the spring of Midas, the king of Phrygia, as it is called, where Midas,
as the story goes, caught the satyr by drugging the spring with wine.

From this place he marched two stages--ten parasangs--to Tyriaeum, a populous city. Here he halted
three days; and the Cilician queen, according to the popular account, begged Cyrus to exhibit
his armament for her amusement. The latter being only too glad to make such an exhibition, held a
review of the Hellenes and barbarians in the plain. He ordered the Hellenes to draw up their lines
and post themselves in their customary battle order, each general marshalling his own battalion.
Accordingly they drew up four-deep. The right was held by Menon and those with him; the 15
left by Clearchus and his men; the centre by the remaining generals with theirs. Cyrus first inspected
the barbarians, who marched past in troops of horses and companies of infantry. He then inspected
the Hellenes; driving past them in his chariot, with the queen in
her carriage.

And they all had brass helmets and purple tunics, and greaves, and their shields uncovered (9).

(9) I.e. ready for action, c.f. "bayonets fixed".

After he had driven past the whole body, he drew up his chariot in front of the centre of the battle-line,
and sent his interpreter Pigres to the generals of the Hellenes, with orders to present arms
and to advance along the whole line. This order was repeated by the generals to their men;
and at the sound of the bugle, with shields forward and spears in
rest, they advanced to meet the enemy.

The pace quickened, and with a shout the soldiers spontaneously fell into a run, making in
the direction of the camp. Great was the panic of the barbarians. The Cilician queen in her
carriage turned and fled; the sutlers in the marketing place left their wares and took to their
heels; and the Hellenes meanwhile came into camp with a roar of laughter. What astounded the
queen was the brilliancy and order of the armament; but Cyrus was pleased to see the terror
inspired by the Hellenes in the hearts of the Asiatics.

From this place he marched on three stages--twenty parasangs--to Iconium,
the last city of Phrygia, where he remained three days. Thence he
marched through Lycaonia five stages--thirty parasangs. This was hostile
country, and he gave it over to the Hellenes to pillage. At this point
Cyrus sent back the Cilician queen to her own country by the quickest
route; and to escort her he sent the soldiers of Menon, and Menon
himself. A stage above this general condition stands that minority of people who have at
some time or other discovered general terms and a certain use for generalisations. They are--to
fall back on the ancient technicality--Realists of a crude sort. When I say Realist of course
I mean Realist as opposed to Nominalist, and not Realist in the almost diametrically different
sense of opposition to Idealist. Such are the Baileys; such, to take their great prototype,
was Herbert Spencer (who couldn't read Kant); such are whole regiments of prominent and entirely
self-satisfied contemporaries. They go through queer little processes of definition and generalisation
and deduction with the completest belief in the validity of the intellectual instrument they
are using. They are Realists--Cocksurists--in matter of fact; sentimentalists in behaviour.
The Baileys having got to this glorious stage in mental development--it is glorious because
it has no doubts--were always talking about training "Experts" to apply the same simple process
to all the affairs of mankind. Well, Realism isn't the last word of human wisdom. Modest-minded
people, doubtful people, subtle people, and the like--the kind of people William James writes
of as "tough-minded," go on beyond this methodical happiness, and are forever after critical
of premises and terms. They are truer--and less confident. They have reached scepticism and
the artistic method. They have emerged into the new Nominalism.

Both Isabel and I believe firmly that these differences of intellectual method matter profoundly
in the affairs of mankind, that the collective mind of this intricate complex modern state
can only function properly upon neo-Nominalist lines. This has always been her side of our
mental co-operation rather than mine. Her mind has the light movement that goes so often with
natural mental power; she has a wonderful art in illustration, and, as the reader probably
knows already, she writes of metaphysical matters with a rare charm and vividness. So far there
has been no collection of her papers published, but they are to be found not only in the BLUE
WEEKLY columns but scattered about the monthlies; many people must be familiar with her style.
It was an intention we did much to realise before our private downfall, that we would use the
BLUE WEEKLY to maintain a stream of suggestion against crude thinking, and at last scarcely
a week passed but some popular distinction, some large imposing generalisation, was touched
to flaccidity by her pen or mine....

I was at great pains to give my philosophical, political, and social matter the best literary
and critical backing we could get in London. I hunted sedulously for good descriptive writing
and good criticism; I was indefatigable in my readiness to hear and consider, if not to accept
advice; I watched every corner of the paper, and had a dozen men alert to get me special matter
of the sort that draws in the unattached reader. The chief danger on the literary side of a
weekly is that it should fall into the hands of some particular school, and this I watched
for closely. It seems impossible to get vividness of apprehension and breadth of view together
in the same critic. So it falls to the wise editor to secure the first and impose the second.
Directly I detected the shrill partisan note in our criticism, the attempt to puff a poor thing
because it was "in the right direction," or damn a vigorous piece of work because it wasn't,
I tackled the man and had it out with him. Our pay was good enough for that to matter a good
deal....

Our distinctive little blue and white poster kept up its neat persistent appeal to the public
eye, and before 1911 was out, the BLUE WEEKLY was printing twenty pages of publishers' advertisements,
and went into all the clubs in London and three-quarters of the country houses where week-end
parties gather together. Its sale by newsagents and bookstalls grew steadily. One got more
and more the reassuring sense of being discussed, and influencing discussion.

5

Our office was at the very top of a big building near the end of Adelphi Terrace; the main
window beside my desk, a big undivided window of plate glass, looked out upon Cleopatra's Needle,
the corner of the Hotel Cecil, the fine arches of Waterloo Bridge, and the long sweep of south
bank with its shot towers and chimneys, past Bankside to the dimly seen piers of the great
bridge below the Tower. The dome of St. Paul's just floated into view on the left against the
hotel facade. By night and day, in every light and atmosphere, it was a beautiful and various
view, alive as a throbbing heart; a perpetual flow of traffic ploughed and splashed the streaming
silver of the river, and by night the shapes of things became velvet black and grey, and the
water a shining mirror of steel, wearing coruscating gems of light. In the foreground the Embankment
trams sailed glowing by, across the water advertisements flashed and flickered, trains went
and came and a rolling drift of smoke reflected unseen fires. By day that spectacle was sometimes
a marvel of shining wet and wind-cleared atmosphere, sometimes a mystery of drifting fog, sometimes
a miracle of crowded details, minutely fine.

As I think of that view, so variously spacious in effect, I am back there, and this sunlit
paper might be lamp-lit and lying on my old desk. I see it all again, feel it all again. In
the foreground is a green shaded lamp and crumpled galley slips and paged proofs and letters,
two or three papers in manuscript, and so forth. In the shadows are chairs and another table
bearing papers and books, a rotating bookcase dimly seen, a long window seat black in the darkness,
and then the cool unbroken spectacle of the window. How often I would watch some tram-car,
some string of barges go from me slowly out of sight. The people were black animalculae by
day, clustering, collecting, dispersing, by night, they were phantom face-specks coming, vanishing,
stirring obscurely between light and shade.

I recall many hours at my desk in that room before the crisis came, hours full of the peculiar
happiness of effective strenuous work. Once some piece of writing went on, holding me intent
and forgetful of time until I looked up from the warm circle of my electric lamp to see the
eastward sky above the pale silhouette of the Tower Bridge, flushed and banded brightly with
the dawn.

CHAPTER THE FOURTH ~~ THE BESETTING OF SEX

1

Art is selection and so is most autobiography. But I am concerned with a more tangled business
than selection, I want to show a contemporary man in relation to the state and social usage,
and the social organism in relation to that man. To tell my story at all I have to simplify.
I have given now the broad lines of my political development, and how I passed from my initial
liberal-socialism to the conception of a constructive aristocracy. I have tried to set that
out in the form of a man discovering himself. Incidentally that self-development led to a profound
breach with my wife. One has read stories before of husband and wife speaking severally two
different languages and coming to an understanding. But Margaret and I began in her dialect,
and, as I came more and more to use my own, diverged.

I had thought when I married that the matter of womankind had ended for me. I have tried to
tell all that sex and women had been to me up to my married life with Margaret and our fatal
entanglement, tried to show the queer, crippled, embarrassed and limited way in which these
interests break upon the life of a young man under contemporary conditions. I do not think
my lot was a very exceptional one. I missed the chance of sisters and girl playmates, but that
is not an uncommon misadventure in an age of small families; I never came to know any woman
at all intimately until I was married to Margaret. My earlier love affairs were encounters
of sex, under conditions of furtiveness and adventure that made them things in themselves,
restricted and unilluminating. From a boyish disposition to be mystical and worshipping towards
women I had passed into a disregardful attitude, as though women were things inferior or irrelevant,
disturbers in great affairs. For a time Margaret had blotted out all other women; she was so
different and so near; she was like a person who stands suddenly in front of a little window
through which one has been surveying a crowd. She didn't become womankind for me so much as
eliminate womankind from my world.... And then came this secret separation....

Until this estrangement and the rapid and uncontrollable development of my relations with Isabel
which chanced to follow it, I seemed to have solved the problem of women by marriage and disregard.
I thought these things were over. I went about my career with Margaret beside me, her brow
slightly knit, her manner faintly strenuous, helping, helping; and if we had not altogether
abolished sex we had at least so circumscribed and isolated it that it would not have affected
the general tenor of our lives in the slightest degree if we had.

And then, clothing itself more and more in the form of Isabel and her problems, this old, this
fundamental obsession of my life returned. The thing stole upon my mind so that I was unaware
of its invasion and how it was changing our long intimacy. I have already compared the lot
of the modern publicist to Machiavelli writing in his study; in his day women and sex were
as disregarded in these high affairs as, let us say, the chemistry of air or the will of the
beasts in the fields; in ours the case has altogether changed, and woman has come now to stand
beside the tall candles, half in the light, half in the mystery of the shadows, besetting,
interrupting, demanding unrelentingly an altogether unprecedented attention. I feel that in
these matters my life has been almost typical of my time. Woman insists upon her presence.
She is no longer a mere physical need, an aesthetic bye-play, a sentimental background; she
is a moral and intellectual necessity in a man's life. She comes to the politician and demands,
Is she a child or a citizen? Is she a thing or a soul? She comes to the individual man, as
she came to me and asks, Is she a cherished weakling or an equal mate, an unavoidable helper?
Is she to be tried and trusted or guarded and controlled, bond or free? For if she is a mate,
one must at once trust more and exact more, exacting toil, courage, and the hardest, most necessary
thing of all, the clearest, most shameless, explicitness of understanding....

2

In all my earlier imaginings of statecraft I had tacitly assumed either that the relations
of the sexes were all right or that anyhow they didn't concern the state. It was a matter they,
whoever "they" were, had to settle among themselves. That river is two hundred feet (3) broad, and
was spanned by a bridge consisting of seven boats. Crossing it, he marched through Phrygia a single
stage, of eight parasangs, to Colossae, an inhabited city (4), prosperous and 6 large. Here he remained
seven days, and was joined by Menon the Thessalian, who arrived with one thousand hoplites and
five hundred peltasts, Dolopes, Aenianes, and Olynthians. From this place he marched three stages,
twenty parasangs in all, to Celaenae, a populous city of Phrygia,
large and prosperous.

Here Cyrus owned a palace and a large park (5) full of wild beasts, which he used to hunt on horseback,
whenever he wished to give himself or his horses exercise. Through the midst of the park flows the river
Maeander, the sources of which are within the palace buildings, and it flows through the city
of Celaenae. The great king also has a palace in Celaenae, a strong place, on the sources of another
river, the Marsyas, at the foot of the acropolis. This river also flows through the city, discharging
itself into the Maeander, and is five-and-twenty feet broad. Here is the place where Apollo
is said to have flayed Marsyas, when he had conquered him in the contest of skill. He hung
up the skin of the conquered man, in the cavern where the spring wells forth, and hence the
name of the river, Marsyas.

It was on this site that Xerxes, as tradition tells, built this very palace, as well as the
citadel of Celaenae itself, on his retreat from Hellas, after he had lost the famous battle.
Here Cyrus remained for thirty days, during which Clearchus the Lacedaemonian arrived with one thousand
hoplites and eight hundred Thracian peltasts and two hundred Cretan archers.
 It wasn't a simple argument based on a simple assumption;
it was the first crude expression of a great mass and mingling of convergent feelings, of a
widespread, confused persuasion among modern educated women that the conditions of their relations
with men were oppressive, ugly, dishonouring, and had to be altered. They had not merely adopted
the Vote as a symbol of equality; it was fairly manifest to me that, given it, they meant to
use it, and to use it perhaps even vindictively and blindly, as a weapon against many things
they had every reason to hate....

I remember, with exceptional vividness, that great night early in the session of 1909, when--I
think it was--fifty or sixty women went to prison. I had been dining at the Barham's, and Lord
Barham and I came down from the direction of St. James's Park into a crowd and a confusion
outside the Caxton Hall. We found ourselves drifting with an immense multitude towards Parliament
Square and parallel with a silent, close-packed column of girls and women, for the most part
white-faced and intent. I still remember the effect of their faces upon me. It was quite different
from the general effect of staring about and divided attention one gets in a political procession
of men. There was an expression of heroic tension.

There had been a pretty deliberate appeal on the part of the women's organisers to the Unemployed,
who had been demonstrating throughout that winter, to join forces with the movement, and the
result was shown in the quality of the crowd upon the pavement. It was an ugly, dangerous-looking
crowd, but as yet good-tempered and sympathetic. When at last we got within sight of the House
the square was a seething seat of excited people, and the array of police on horse and on foot
might have been assembled for a revolutionary outbreak. There were dense masses of people up
Whitehall, and right on to Westminster Bridge. The scuffle that ended in the arrests was the
poorest explosion to follow such stupendous preparations....

3

Later on in that year the women began a new attack. Day and night, and all through the long
nights of the Budget sittings, at all the piers of the gates of New Palace Yard and at St.
Stephen's Porch, stood women pickets, and watched us silently and reproachfully as we went
to and fro. They were women of all sorts, though, of course, the independent worker-class predominated.
There were grey-headed old ladies standing there, sturdily charming in the rain; battered-looking,
ambiguous women, with something of the desperate bitterness of battered women showing in their
eyes; north-country factory girls; cheaply-dressed suburban women; trim, comfortable mothers
of families; valiant-eyed girl graduates and undergraduates; lank, hungry-looking creatures,
who stirred one's imagination; one very dainty little woman in deep mourning, I recall, grave
and steadfast, with eyes fixed on distant things. Some of those women looked defiant, some
timidly aggressive, some full of the stir of adventure, some drooping with cold and fatigue.
The supply never ceased. I had a mortal fear that somehow the supply might halt or cease. I
found that continual siege of the legislature extraordinarily impressive--infinitely more impressive
than the feeble-forcible "ragging" of the more militant section. I thought of the appeal that
must be going through the country, summoning the women from countless scattered homes, rooms,
colleges, to Westminster.

I remember too the petty little difficulty I felt whether I should ignore these pickets altogether,
or lift a hat as I hurried past with averted eyes, or look them in the face as I did so. Towards
the end the House evoked an etiquette of salutation.

4

There was a tendency, even on the part of its sympathisers, to treat the whole suffrage agitation
as if it were a disconnected issue, irrelevant to all other broad developments of social and
political life. We struggled, all of us, to ignore the indicating finger it thrust out before
us. "Your schemes, for all their bigness," it insisted to our reluctant, averted minds, "still
don't go down to the essential things...."

We have to go deeper, or our inadequate children's insufficient children will starve amidst
harvests of earless futility. That conservatism which works in every class to preserve in its
essentials the habitual daily life is all against a profounder treatment of political issues.
The politician, almost as absurdly as the philosopher, tends constantly, in spite of magnificent
preludes, vast intimations, to specialise himself out of the reality he has so stupendously
summoned--he bolts back to littleness. The world has to be moulded anew, he continues to admit,
but without, he adds, any risk of upsetting his week-end visits, his morning cup of tea....

The discussion of the relations of men and women disturbs every one. It reacts upon the private
life of every one who attempts it. And at any particular time only a small minority have a
personal interest in changing the established state of affairs. Habit and interest are in a
constantly recruited majority against conscious change and adjustment in these matters. Drift
rules us. The great mass of people, and an overwhelming proportion of influential people, are
people who have banished their dreams and made their compromise. Wonderful and beautiful possibilities
are no longer to be thought about. They have given up any aspirations for intense love, their
splendid offspring, for keen delights, have accepted a cultivated kindliness and an uncritical
sense of righteousness as their compensation. It's a settled affair with them, a settled, dangerous
affair. Most of them fear, and many hate, the slightest reminder of those abandoned dreams.
As Dayton once said to the Pentagram Circle, when we were discussing the problem of a universal
marriage and divorce law throughout the Empire, "I am for leaving all these things alone."
And then, with a groan in his voice, "Leave them alone! Leave them all alone!"

That was his whole speech for the evening, in a note of suppressed passion, and presently,
against all our etiquette, he got up and went out.

For some years after my marriage, I too was for leaving them alone. I developed a dread and
dislike for romance, for emotional music, for the human figure in art--turning my heart to
landscape. I wanted to sneer at lovers and their ecstasies, and was uncomfortable until I found
the effective sneer. In matters of private morals these were my most uncharitable years. I
didn't want to think of these things any more for ever. I hated the people whose talk or practice
showed they were not of my opinion. I wanted to believe that their views were immoral and objectionable
and contemptible, because I had decided to treat them as at that level. I was, in fact, falling
into the attitude of the normal decent man.

And yet one cannot help thinking! The sensible moralised man finds it hard to escape the stream
of suggestion that there are still dreams beyond these commonplace acquiescences,--the appeal
of beauty suddenly shining upon one, the mothlike stirrings of serene summer nights, the sweetness
of distant music....

It is one of the paradoxical factors in our public life at the present time, which penalises
abandonment to love so abundantly and so heavily, that power, influence and control fall largely
to unencumbered people and sterile people and people who have married for passionless purposes,
people whose very deficiency in feeling has left them free to follow ambition, people beautyblind,
who don't understand what it is to fall in love, what it is to desire children or have them,
what it is to feel in their blood and bodies the supreme claim of good births and selective
births above all other affairs in life, people almost of necessity averse from this most fundamental
aspect of existence....

5

It wasn't, however, my deepening sympathy with and understanding of the position of women in
general, or the change in my ideas about all these intimate things my fast friendship with
Isabel was bringing about, that led me to the heretical views I have in the last five years
dragged from the region of academic and timid discussion into the field of practical politics. Clearchus
took the gold, and with the money raised 9 an army, and using the Chersonese as his base of operations,
set to work to fight the Thracians north of the Hellespont, in the interests of the Hellenes,
and with such happy result that the Hellespontine cities, of their own accord, were eager to contribute
funds for the support of his troops. In this way, again, an armament was being secretly maintained
for Cyrus.

(2) A Persian gold coin = 125.55 grains of gold.

Then there was the Thessalian Aristippus, Cyrus's friend (3), who, under pressure of the rival
political party at home, had come to Cyrus and asked him for pay for two thousand mercenaries,
to be continued for three months, which would enable him, he said, to gain the upper hand of his antagonists.
Cyrus replied by presenting him with six months' pay for four thousand mercenaries--only stipulating
that Aristippus should not come to terms with his antagonists without final consultation with
himself. In this way he secured to himself the secret maintenance of a fourth armament.

(3) Lit. "guest-friend." Aristippus was, as we learn from the "Meno" of Plato, a native of
Larisa, of the family of the Aleuadae, and a pupil of Gorgias. He
was also a lover of Menon, whom he appears to have sent on this expedition
instead of himself.

Further, he bade Proxenus, a Boeotian, who was
another friend, get together as many men as possible, and join him
in an expedition which he meditated against the Pisidians (4), who
were causing annoyance to his territory. Our civilisation was
growing outwardly, and decaying in its intimate substance, and unless it was presently to collapse,
some very extensive and courageous reorganisation was needed. The old haphazard system of pairing,
qualified more and more by worldly discretions, no longer secures a young population numerous
enough or good enough for the growing needs and possibilities of our Empire. Statecraft sits
weaving splendid garments, no doubt, but with a puny, ugly, insufficient baby in the cradle.

