"Look, look, Cynthia!" she exclaimed, brushing off a cloud of dust with the whisk-broom, and
pointing to the top of the sheet. "Here's one of the biggest discoveries yet!" And Cynthia,
following her index-finger, read aloud:

"'Tuesday, April 16, 1861.'"

"Which proves," added Joyce, "that whatever happened here didn't take place much earlier than
this date, or the paper wouldn't be here. What we want to do now is hunt around and see if
there are any newspapers of a later date. Let's do it this minute!"

Forgetting all their weariness, they seized their candles and scurried through the house, finding
an occasional paper tucked away in some odd corner. But upon examination these all proved to
be of earlier date than that of their first discovery. And when it was clear that there were
no more to be found, Joyce announced:

"Well, I'm convinced that the Boarded-up House mystery happened not earlier than April 16,
1861, and probably not much later. That's over forty years ago, for this is 1905! Just think,
Cynthia, of this place standing shut up and untouched and lonely all that time! It's wonderful!"
But Cynthia had turned and snatched up Goliath.

"You precious cat!" she crooned to him as he struggled unappreciatively in her embrace. "You're
the best detective of us all! We ought to change your name to 'Sherlock Holmes'!"

CHAPTER VIII

CYNTHIA HAS AN IDEA

"It's no use, Cynthia. We've come to the end of our rope!" Joyce sat back on her heels (she
had been rummaging through a box of old trash in the kitchen of the Boarded-up House) and wiped
her grimy hands on the dust-cloth. Cynthia, perched gingerly on the edge of a rickety chair,
nodded a vigorous assent.

"I gave it up long ago. It seemed so hopeless! But you would continue to hunt, so I've trotted
around after you and said nothing."

More than three weeks had elapsed since the finding of the old newspaper and the definite settling
of the date. Filled with new hope over this find, the girls had continued to search diligently
through the neglected old mansion, strong in the belief that they would eventually discover,
if not the missing key, at least a trail of clues that would lead to the unraveling of the
mystery. The mystery, however, refused to be unraveled. They made no further discoveries, and
to-day even Joyce expressed herself as completely discouraged.

"There's just one thing that seems to me thoroughly foolish," Cynthia continued. "It's your
still insisting that we keep from mentioning the Boarded-up House to outsiders. Good gracious!
do you think they're all going to suspect that we're inside here every other day, just because
you happen to speak of the place? If you do, it's your guilty conscience troubling you!" Cynthia
had never spoken quite so sharply before. Joyce looked up, a little hurt.

"Why, Cynthia, what's the matter with you? One would think I'd been doing something wrong,
the way you speak!"

"Oh, I didn't mean it that way," explained Cynthia, contritely. "But you don't know how this
remembering not to speak of it has got on my nerves! I catch myself a dozen times a day just
going to make some innocent remark about the B. U. H., generally at the table, and then I stutter
and blush, and they all ask what's the matter, and I don't know what in the world to answer!
Now I have an idea. Perhaps it isn't worth anything; mine generally aren't! But it's this:
why wouldn't it be a good scheme to get the older folks to talk about this house, without letting
them know you have any special interest in it--just start the subject, somehow? I notice folks
are liable to talk quite a long while on most any subject that's started. And they might have
something to say that would interest us, and we might get some new clues. And I don't see any
reason why they should connect us with it, specially."

Joyce considered the subject in thoughtful silence.

"I believe you're right," she said at last. "It is silly to continue keeping so 'mum' about
it, and we might get some good new points. Anyhow, in the detective stories Sherlock Holmes
didn't keep everything so quiet, but talked to lots of outside people, and got ideas that way,
too. Why didn't I think of it before! Good old Cynthia! You had the right notion that time.
Come, let's go home now. I'm tired and sick of this dusty grubbing, and we're not going to
do any more of it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning, Joyce came flying over to Cynthia's house half an hour before it was time to
start for high school. She seemed rather excited.

"Come on! Do hurry, Cyn! I've something important to tell you."

"But it isn't time to start yet," objected Cynthia, "and I'm only half through breakfast. Tell
me here!" Joyce gave her a warning glance before turning away.

"Oh, later will do," she remarked casually, and strolled into the sitting-room to chat with
Mrs. Sprague. This was sufficient to hasten Cynthia, who usually loved to linger cozily over
her morning meal. She had her hat and coat on and her books under her arm inside of seven minutes,
and the two girls hurried away together. They were no sooner down the steps than Joyce began:

"Last night an idea came to me, just through some remark that Father happened to make. It's
queer we never thought of it before. There's a real-estate agent over the other side of the
town--Mr. Wade--and he ought to know everything about all the property here. That's his business.
Let's go to his office and ask him about the old house. He doesn't know us, and won't suspect
anything. We'll go this afternoon, right after school!"

"But there's a meeting of the Sigma Sigma Society this afternoon," Cynthia remonstrated, "and
they're going to give that little play. The omission is significant; this word of Jesus gives no encouragement
to delay in the matter of the soul's salvation; not a ray of hope
is permitted to burst through the gloom that shrouds these hapless
wanderers.

The sole lesson of the parable is a simple, sublime warning that sinners should close with Christ
now, lest they should be left to invoke his name in vain at the hour
of their departure.

This parable is a voice from an open heaven promising all grace now,
but refusing to promise any then.

They came afterwards to the door and cried bitterly for admission, but the Lord answered from
within, I know you not.

As the omniscient he knew them; he was acquainted with all their ways. He knew them, for they
had crucified him afresh by their neglect.
 Business had been very dull, he had two children at home sick with measles,
and he himself was in the first stage of a cold.

"I don't know anything about it!" he mumbled crossly. "It ain't in the market--never was!"

"Oh, we don't want to buy it or rent it!" explained Joyce, politely. "We only wanted to know
if you knew the owners, where they live and what their names are."

"No, I don't!" he reiterated. "Tried to find out once. It's some estate. Business all transacted
through lawyers in New York, and they won't open their heads about it. Plain as told me it
was none of my affairs!"

"Then perhaps you could tell us--" Joyce was persisting, when the agent suddenly interrupted,
turning on her suspiciously:

"Say, what do you want to know all this for? What's the old place to you, anyhow?"

"Oh, nothing--nothing at all!" protested Joyce, alarmed lest their precious secret was about
to be discovered. "We only asked out of curiosity. Good day, sir!" And the two girls fled precipitately
from the office.

"I was going to ask him the name of the lawyers," Joyce explained as they hurried away. "But
it wouldn't do any good, I guess, if we knew. We couldn't go and question them, for it's plain
from what the agent said that they don't want to talk about it. My, but that man was cranky,
wasn't he!"

"I think he was sick," said Cynthia. "He looked it. Well, I suppose we will have to give it
all up! We've tried just about everything." Suddenly she stopped and stood perfectly still,
staring blankly at nothing.

"Come on!" urged Joyce. "Whatever is the matter with you, standing here like that?"

"I was just thinking--seems to me I remember something about the first day we got into the
B. U. H. Didn't you tell me that you knew the house was left furnished, that somebody had told
your father so?"

"Why, of course!" cried Joyce, excited at once. "I certainly did, and what a stupid I am not
to have thought of it since!" And she herself stopped short and stood thinking.

"Well, what is it?" demanded Cynthia, impatiently. "Who's stopping and staring now?"

"The trouble is," said Joyce, slowly, "that the whole thing's not very clear in my mind. It
was several years ago that I heard Father mention it. Somebody was visiting us when we first
moved here, and asked him at the table about the old house next door. And Father said, I think,
that he didn't know anything much about it only that it was a queer old place, and once he
had met an elderly lady who happened to mention to him that she knew the house was left furnished,
just as it was, and she didn't think the owners would ever live in it again. I don't know why
I happened to remember this. It must have made quite an impression on me, because I was a good
deal younger and didn't generally listen much to what they were saying at table."

"Well," announced Cynthia, still standing where she had stopped, and speaking with great positiveness,
"there's only one thing to do now, and that is, find out who the old lady is and hunt her up!"

"I suppose I can find out her name from Father--if he remembers it--but what then? I can't
go and scrape up an acquaintance with a perfectly strange person, and she may live in Timbuctoo!"
objected Joyce.

"It's the only thing left, the 'last resort' as they say in stories," said Cynthia. "But, of
course, you can do as you like. You're engineering this business!"

"Well, I will," conceded Joyce, not very hopefully, however. "I'll lead Father round to talking
of her this evening, if I can, and see what comes of it."

Joyce was as good as her word. That evening when she and her father were seated cozily in the
library, she studying, her father smoking and reading his paper, while her mother was temporarily
out of the room, she began diplomatically:

"Do you know any real elderly people, Father?" He looked up with a quizzical expression.

"Well, a few. Most people do, don't they? What do you inquire for, Duckie? Thinking of founding
an old people's home?" he asked teasingly.

"Oh, no! But who are they, Father? Do you mind telling me?"

"Mercy, Joyce! I can't think just now of all of them!" He was deep in a preëlection article
in his paper, and wanted to return to it.

"But can't you think of just a few?" she implored.

"Well, you are the queerest child! There's Grandfather Lambert, and your Great-aunt Lucia,
and old Mr. Selby, and--oh, I can't think, Joyce! What's all this foolishness anyway?" Joyce
saw at once that she was getting at nothing very definite along this line and determined on
a bold move.

"Well, who is the old lady that you spoke of once, who, you said, knew something about that
queer old boarded-up house next door?"

"Now, why in the world didn't you say so at once, without first making me go through the whole
list of my elderly acquaintances?" he laughed. "That was your Great-aunt Lucia."

"What!" Joyce almost shouted in her astonishment.

"Why, certainly! What's queer about that? She used to live in New York City, and knew all the
best families for miles around. When we first moved here, next to that ramshackle old place,
I remember her telling me she'd known the people who used to live there."

"Who were they?" demanded Joyce, eagerly.

"Oh, I don't remember their name! I don't know that she ever mentioned it. She only said she
knew them, and they'd gone away rather suddenly and left their house all furnished and never
came back. Now do let me finish my paper in peace, Duckie dear!"

Joyce said no more, and turned again to her studies; but her brain was in a whirl, and she
could not concentrate her thoughts on her work. Great-aunt Lucia!--of all people! And here
she had been wondering how she could ever get to know some stranger well enough to put her
questions. But, for that matter, there were difficulties in the way of questioning even Great-aunt
Lucia. She was a very old lady, a confirmed invalid, who lived in Poughkeepsie. For many years
she had not left her home, and the family seldom saw her; but her father paid a visit to the
old lady once in a while when he was in that vicinity.

Joyce then fell to planning how she could get into communication with this Great-aunt Lucia.
She couldn't write her inquiries,--that certainly would never do! If she could only visit her
and get her to talk about it! But Joyce had never visited this relative in her life, and never
particularly wanted to, and it would appear strange to seem suddenly so anxious to see the
old lady. This, however, was obviously the only solution, and she began to wonder how it could
be arranged. Very prudently, she waited till her father had finished his pipe and laid aside
his paper. Then she commenced afresh, but casually, as though the idea had just entered her mind:

"Great-aunt Lucia must be a very interesting old lady, Father!"

"She is, she certainly is! I was always very fond of her. My! how she can talk, and the stories
she can tell about old times!" said Mr. Kenway, waxing enthusiastic.

"Oh, I wish I could visit her!" exclaimed Joyce.

"Well, you certainly may, if you really want to. I've always wanted her to see you since you've
grown so, and I've proposed a number of times that you go with me on the trip. But you've always
refused to be separated from your precious Cynthia, and I couldn't think of inflicting two
youngsters on her." Joyce remembered now, with a good deal of self-reproach, how many times
she had begged off from accompanying her father. It had not seemed very interesting then, and,
as he had said, she did not want to leave Cynthia, even for two or three days. She realized
now that she had not only been a little selfish about it, but had plainly missed a golden opportunity.

"Oh, Father," she cried in real contrition, "I was mean to refuse you! I didn't realize that
you wanted me to go. I thought you only did it to give me a good time, and, somehow, it didn't
seem like a good time--then! When are you going again? And won't you take me?"

"I haven't been there in two years," he mused. "I ought to go again soon. The old lady may
not live very long, she's so feeble. Let's see! Suppose we make it the week-end before election.
I'll write to her to-morrow that we're all coming, you and Mother and I."

"Oh, but, Father!" exclaimed Joyce. "Couldn't we go sooner? That's nearly a month off!"

"Best I can do, Duckie dear! I simply can't get away before. What's your hurry anyway? First
you won't be hired to go and see her, and then you want to rush off and do it at once! What
a funny little daughter it is!" He kissed her laughingly, as she bade him good night.

But Joyce slept little that night. She was wild for morning to come so that she could tell
Cynthia, and wilder with impatience to think of the long dragging month ahead before the visit
to Great-aunt Lucia, and the solution of the mystery.

CHAPTER IX

THE MEMORIES OF GREAT-AUNT LUCIA

Cynthia sat at her desk in high school, alternately staring out of the window, gazing intently
across the room at Joyce, and scowling at the blackboard where the cryptic symbols

  (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

were being laboriously expounded by the professor of mathematics. Of this exposition, it is
safe to say, Cynthia comprehended not a word for the following simple reason. Early that morning
Joyce had returned from the visit to her great-aunt Lucia and had entered the class-room late.
Cynthia had not yet had a moment in which to speak with her alone. It was now the last period
of the day, and her impatience had completely conquered her usual absorbed attention to her
studies.

The professor droned on. The class feverishly copied more cryptic symbols in its notebooks.
But at last the closing-bell rang, and after what seemed interminable and totally unnecessary
delays, Cynthia found herself out of doors, arm-in-arm with Joyce. Then all she could find
to say was:

"Now--tell me!" But Joyce was very serious, and very mysterious too.

"Not here," she answered. "I couldn't! Wait!"

"Well, where and when, then?" cried Cynthia.

"Home," said Joyce. Then, after a moment,--"No, I'll tell you in the Boarded-up House! That's
the most appropriate place. We'll go there straight after we get home." So Cynthia was obliged
to repress her impatience a little longer. But at length they had crept through the cellar
window, lighted their candles, and were proceeding up-stairs.

"Come into the library," said Joyce. "I want to stand right where I can look at the Lovely
Lady when I tell you this. It's all so strange--so different from what we thought!" So they
went through the drawing-room, entered the library, and placed their candlesticks on the mantel
where the light would best illuminate the portrait of the Lovely Lady. Then Joyce began.

"Great-aunt Lucia is very old and very feeble. She seemed so glad to see us all,--especially
me. She talked to me a great deal, but I did not have a chance to mention this place to her
at all till the last evening we were there. Mother and Father had gone out to call on some
friends, but it was raining and I had a sore throat, so they decided not to take me. I was
so glad, because then I could stay home and talk to Great-aunt Lucia, and it was the first
time I'd been with her long alone.

"She had been telling me a lot about when she was a little girl, and asking me about myself.
And I had told her about you and how we'd been together so many years, and what we did when
we weren't in school. And finally I mentioned, just casually, that we often played in the grounds
of this old house next door and described the place a little to her. Well, that started her,
as I was sure it would! She began telling me that it was so strange,--that she had been in
this house once, and curiously enough, just before it was closed for good. Then, you can warrant,
I listened with all my ears!

"She said she had become acquainted with the lady through meeting her a short time before at
the house of a friend in New York. This friend had then introduced them,--'Mrs. Hubert Kenway--Mrs.
Fairfax Collingwood'!"

"Mrs. Collingwood!" cried Cynthia. "And we thought she wasn't married!--"

"Well, she was,--and we've made several mistakes beside that, Cynthia Sprague, as you'll find
out later! It seems that Great-aunt Lucia took quite a fancy to young Mrs. Collingwood. She
was so sweet and gracious and charmingly pretty. Later, Great-aunt Lucia discovered that she
was a widow, living out here. Her husband had been dead a number of years,--ten, I think. She
was a Southerner, having come originally from South Carolina.

"Great-aunt Lucia did not see her again till a few weeks later, when she received an invitation
to go with her friend, take luncheon, and spend the day at Mrs. Collingwood's. There were several
others invited, about a dozen in all. They all came out by train and drove here in hired carriages
from the station, which was a long way off then. It was a beautiful, soft, balmy April day,
and spring seemed well begun.

"Great-aunt Lucia said the place was delightful,--an old, Colonial house (it seemed so strange
to hear her describe everything just as we've seen it!). And Mrs. Collingwood was a charming
hostess. But they were just finishing luncheon when the strangest thing happened!

"A servant came in and handed Mrs. Collingwood a telegram as she sat at the head of the table.
She excused herself to them, tore open the envelope and read it. Then, to their astonishment,
she turned first a fiery red, and afterward white as a sheet. Then she sprang to her feet saying,
'Oh!' in a sort of stifled voice. Everyone jumped up too, some so quickly that they knocked
over their chairs and asked if anything dreadful was the matter. Then, all of a sudden, she
toppled over and slipped to the floor in a dead faint."

"Didn't I tell you so, long ago!" exclaimed Cynthia. "I said she probably fainted!"

"Yes, you were right. Well, two or three began to chafe her hands and face, and the rest sent
the servants flying for smelling-salts and vinegar. Everything was confusion for a few minutes,
till she presently came to. Then they all began again to question her about what was the matter,
but she wouldn't tell them. She just said:

"'I've had bad news, dear friends, and it has made me feel quite ill. It is something I cannot
speak about. I hope you will not think me thoroughly inhospitable, if I go to my room for a
while.' They all told her she must certainly go and lie down, and that they would leave immediately.
She begged them not to hurry, but of course they saw that it wasn't best to stay, since she
wouldn't let them do anything for her. So, fifteen minutes later they were all driving away
in the carriages which had remained for them at the house. And--" here Joyce paused dramatically,--"not
one of them, except my great-aunt's friend, Mrs. Durand, ever saw her again!"

"But--but--" began Cynthia.

"Wait," said Joyce. "I haven't finished yet! Of course, all of them were crazy to know what
happened, but most of them never did,--not till long, long afterward, anyway. XX.

THE BARREN FIG-TREE.
It is obvious that the massacre of the Galileans by Pilate was mentioned
on this occasion, not for its own sake, but for the purpose of supporting
a doctrine which the narrators held and desired to establish. She was dressed entirely in black, and carried only a small grip.
Of course, Mrs. Durand took her right in, and that night Mrs. Collingwood told her what had
happened.

"But first, I must tell you that Mrs. Collingwood had a son--"

"What?" gasped Cynthia, staring up at the girlish picture.

"Yes, a son! And not a baby, either, but a fine, handsome young fellow of seventeen. Great-aunt
Lucia says that Mrs. Collingwood was married when she was only seventeen, and that she was
thirty-five when all this happened. But she looked much younger. So that accounts for our mistake!
The son was away at Harvard College,--or at least they thought he was, at the time of the luncheon.
But Great-aunt Lucia says that the same afternoon, as they were driving to the station, they
met a splendid young fellow with yellow hair and bright brown eyes, hurrying along the road
in the opposite direction. He took off his cap to them gaily, and Mrs. Durand whispered that
it was young Fairfax Collingwood, evidently coming home unexpectedly. Great-aunt Lucia says
she will never forget his excited, happy look!

"Now, I'll go back to Mrs. Durand and Mrs. Collingwood. (And all that follows, Mrs. Durand
told Great-aunt Lucia long, long long afterward.) Mrs. Collingwood came into the house, and
her face looked set like a stone, and she seemed twenty years older than when she was having
the luncheon. And Mrs. Durand cried:

"'Oh, my dear, you have lost some one? You are dressed in mourning!'

"'Yes,' said Mrs. Collingwood. 'I have lost my son! I am going away.' And Mrs. Durand said:

"Oh, how--how sudden! He can't be dead! We saw him!' And Mrs. Collingwood answered:

"'He is dead to me!' And for the longest time, Mrs. Durand couldn't get another word from her,
except that she had shut up the house and was going home South, to live for good. Well, Mrs.
Durand put her right to bed,--she was fairly sick with nervousness and exhaustion. And late
that night, she broke down and cried and cried, and told Mrs. Durand everything.

"And, oh, Cynthia! What do you think it was? You'd never guess!-- You know, the Civil War had
just broken out,--Fort Sumter had surrendered and Mrs. Collingwood was a South Carolina woman,
and was heart and soul with the Confederacy. She had married a Northern man, and had lived
ever since up here, but that didn't make any difference. And all the time war had been threatening,
she had been planning to raise a company in South Carolina for her son Fairfax, and put him
in command of it. They did those things at that time. Her son didn't know about it, however.
She was keeping the news to surprise him.

"And then, that day at luncheon, she received a telegram from him saying he had left college
and enlisted--in the Union army--and was coming home at once to bid her good-bye before going
to the front! The shock of it almost killed her! But later she thought that surely, when he
came, she could persuade him out of it.

"And he came that very afternoon. The ladies had met him walking up from the train. She would
not tell Mrs. Durand just what happened, but intimated that they had had a dreadful scene.
You see, the young fellow had been born and brought up in the North, and his sympathies were
all with that side, and he was just as enthusiastic about it as his mother was about the other.
And besides, she'd never talked to him much about the Southern cause, so he didn't realize
how she felt. At last, when he wouldn't give in, she admitted to Mrs. Durand that she disowned
him, and told him never to see her face again.

"When he had gone to his room to pack his things, she went and dismissed her servants, and
told them to go at once. Then she locked herself in her room till her boy went away. She never
saw him again! After he had gone, that night, she collected all her silver and hid it, and
partially packed her own things, and then decided she wouldn't take them with her. And when
she had gone around shutting up the house, it was morning. As soon as it was daylight, she
went out and got an old colored carpenter who lived nearby to come and board up the windows
and doors. She had the boarding all in the cellar, for it had been made two years before when
she went to Europe for six months. It took him nearly all day to finish the work, while she
stood around and gave directions. I don't see how she had the strength to do it! When it was
all done, she locked the door, walked to the station, took the train for New York, and came
to Mrs. Durand." Joyce paused in her recital, from sheer lack of breath, and Cynthia took advantage
of the silence.

"So that was the way of it! And we thought it was her brother, and that he'd done something
awful,--committed a robbery or forged something! I don't see why that young Fairfax should
have been treated so! I think what he did was fine!"

"You must remember," said Joyce, "that people felt so differently about such things in those
days. The same spirit burst forth when they were touched on the same tender point in the ministry
of the apostles. Paul was permitted from the stairs of the fortress attached to the temple
at Jerusalem to address an excited multitude on the faith as it is
in Jesus.

"I can't understand it, even so!" insisted Cynthia. "But did your great-aunt say anything about
those pictures?"

"No, but I asked her if Mrs. Collingwood had any other children, and she said she understood
that Fairfax had been a twin, but his little sister had died when she wasn't much more than
three years old. So that's the explanation of the two babies in the other room. I suppose Mrs.
Collingwood didn't tell all,--in fact I said she didn't tell any details about what happened
that night. Probably she turned the portrait around and tore out the miniature when she was
alone. But I haven't finished my story yet!"

"Oh, do go on then!" implored Cynthia.

"Mrs. Collingwood stayed at her friend's house two days," continued Joyce, "and then left for
her old home in a little town in South Carolina and never came North again. Mrs. Durand never
saw her again, either, but used to hear from her at very long intervals. But here's where the
awful thing comes in. After the battle of Shiloh, a year later, when the papers published the
list of killed--Fairfax Collingwood's name was among the first! So he did not live very long,
you see. But what a terrible thing for the poor mother to think that she and her son had parted
in anger, and now were never, never to meet again, and make it all up! Oh, I can hardly bear
to think of it!" Joyce's eyes were full of tears, as she gazed up at the proud, beautiful face
above them.

"Well, that's the end of the story, and that's the tragedy and mystery about this Boarded-up
House. Oh!--there's one other thing,--Great-aunt Lucia says she thinks Mrs. Collingwood is
still alive,--a very old lady, living down in the little old South Carolina town of Chesterton.
She will never allow this old house to be touched nor let any one enter it. But she has made
a will, leaving it to the Southern Society when she dies. That's positively all, and you see
everything is explained."

"No, it isn't!" retorted Cynthia. "You haven't explained one thing, at all!"

"What's that?" asked Joyce.

"The mystery of the locked-up room!" replied Cynthia.

CHAPTER X

AN EXCITING DISCOVERY

The autumn of that year ended, the winter months came and went with all their holiday festivities,
and spring entered in her appointed time. The passing winter had been filled with such varied
outside activities for the two girls, that there was little time to think of the Boarded-up
House, and still less to do any further investigating within it. Added to that, the cold had
been so constant and intense that it would have been unsafe to venture into the unlighted,
unheated, and unventilated old mansion.

But, in spite of these things, its haunting story was never out of their minds for long, and
they discussed and re-discussed it in many a spare hour when they crouched cozily by themselves
over the open fire during that long winter. It was a wonderful and appealing secret that they
somehow felt was all their own. It was better, more interesting than the most engrossing story
they had ever read. And the fascination of it was that, though they now knew so much, they
did not yet know all. The mystery of the locked room always confronted them, always lured them on!

Once, on a day that was unusually mild, they ventured into the old house for a few moments,
and looked long and intently at the Lovely Lady over the library mantel, and at the two pretty
children in the drawing-room.

"Yes, that is the boy," said Cynthia. "You can see, even there, what a fine young fellow he
must have made, with those big brown eyes and that curly golden hair. Oh, the poor mother!--
How she must have grieved, all these years! You can see that she has never gotten over it,
or she would have come back here sometime. I wonder if she is alive yet!"

In the library, Joyce picked up the paper that had been discovered through the help of Goliath,
and looked it over curiously.

"Why in the world didn't we read this paper when we found it!" she exclaimed disgustedly. "Just
see here,--the big headlines--'Fort Sumter Surrenders. War Formally Declared. Troops Rushing
To Washington!' Why, Cynthia, it would surely have given us the clue!"

