MY YOUNG ALCIDES

A FADED PHOTOGRAPH

by

Charlotte M. Yonge

PREFACE

Ideas have a tyrannous power of insisting on being worked out, even when one fears they may
be leading in a track already worthily preoccupied.

But the Hercules myth did not seem to me to be like one of the fairy tales that we have seen
so gracefully and quaintly modernised; and at the risk of seeming to travestie the Farnese
statue in a shooting-coat and wide-awake, I could not help going on, as the notion grew deeper
and more engrossing.

For, whether the origin of the myth be, or be not, founded on solar phenomena, the yearning
Greek mind formed on it an unconscious allegory of the course of the Victor, of whom the Sun,
rejoicing as a giant to run his course, is another type, like Samson of old, since the facts
of nature and of history are Divine parables.

And as each one's conquest is, in the track of his Leader, the only true Conqueror, so Hercules,
in spite of all the grotesque adjuncts that the lower inventions of the heathen hung round
him, is a far closer likeness of manhood--as, indeed, the proverbial use of some of his tasks
testifies--and of repentant man conquering himself.  The great crime, after which his life
was a bondage of expiation; the choice between Virtue and Vice; the slain passion; the hundred-headed
sin for ever cropping up again; the winning of the sacred emblem of purity;--then the subduing
of greed; the cleansing of long-neglected uncleanness; the silencing of foul tongues; the remarkable
contest with the creature which had become a foe, because, after being devoted for sacrifice,
it was spared; the obtaining the girdle of strength; the recovery of the spoil from the three-fold
enemy; the gaining of the fruit of life; immediately followed by the victory over the hell-hound
of death; and lastly, the attainment of immortality--all seem no fortuitous imagination, but
one of those when "thoughts beyond their thoughts to those old bards were given."

I have not followed all these meanings, for this is not an allegory, but a mere distant following
rather of the spirit than the letter of the old Greek tale of the Twelve Tasks.  Neither have
I adhered to every incident of Hercules' life; and the most touching and beautiful of all--the
rescue of Alcestis, would hardly bear to come in merely as an episode, in this weak and presumptuous
endeavour to show that the half-divine, patient conqueror is not merely a classic invention,
but that he and his labours belong in some form or other to all times and all surroundings.

                                                C. M. YONGE.
Nov. 8, 1875.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I. THE ARGHOUSE INHERITANCE

CHAPTER II. THE LION OF NEME HEATH

CHAPTER III. THE "DRAGON'S HEAD"

CHAPTER IV. THE WRATH OF DIANA

CHAPTER V. THE CAPTURE IN THE SNOW

CHAPTER VI. OGDEN'S BUILDINGS

CHAPTER VII. THE BIRDS OF ILL OMEN

CHAPTER VIII. BULLOCK'S CHASTISEMENT

CHAPTER IX. THE CHAMPION'S BELT

CHAPTER X. DERMOT'S MARK

CHAPTER XI. THE RED VALLEY CATTLE STEALERS

CHAPTER XII. THE GOLDEN FRUIT

CHAPTER XIII. THE BLOODHOUND

CHAPTER XIV. SUNSET GOLD AND PURPLE

CHAPTER XV. THE FATAL TOKEN

CHAPTER XVI. CONCLUSION

MY YOUNG ALCIDES

A FADED PHOTOGRAPH

CHAPTER I.

THE ARGHOUSE INHERITANCE.

One of the children brought me a photograph album, long ago finished and closed, and showed
me a faded and blurred figure over which there had been a little dispute.  Was it Hercules
with club and lion-skin, or was it a gentleman I had known?

Ah me! how soon a man's place knoweth him no more!  What fresh recollections that majestic
form awoke in me--the massive features, with the steadfast eye, and low, square brow, curled
over with short rings of hair; the mouth, that, through the thick, short beard, still invited
trust and reliance, even while there was a look of fire and determination that inspired dread.

The thing seemed to us hideous and absurd when it was taken by Miss Horsman.  I hated it, and
hid it away as a caricature.  But now those pale, vanishing tints bring the very presence before
me; and before the remembrance can become equally obscure in my own mind, let me record for
others the years that I spent with my young Alcides as he now stands before me in memory.

Our family history is a strange one.  I, Lucy Alison, never even saw my twin brothers--nor,
indeed, knew of their existence--during my childhood.  I had one brother a year younger than
myself, and as long as he lived he was treated as the eldest son, and neither he nor I ever
dreamed that my father had had a first wife and two sons.  He was a feeble, broken man, who
seemed to my young fancy so old that in after times it was always a shock to me to read on
his tablet, "Percy Alison, aged fifty-seven;" and I was but seven years old when he died under
the final blow of the loss of my little brother Percy from measles.

The dear old place--house with five gables on the garden front, black timbered, and with white
plaster between, and oh! such flowers in the garden--was left to my mother for her life; and
she was a great deal younger than my father, so we went on living there, and it was only when
I was almost a woman that I came to the knowledge that the property would never be mine, but
would go in the male line to the son of one of my disinherited convict brothers.

The story, as my mother knew it, was this: Their names were Ambrose and Eustace: there was
very little interval between their births, and there had been some confusion between them during
the first few hours of their lives, so that the question of seniority was never entirely clear,
though Ambrose was so completely the leader and master that he was always looked upon as the elder.

In their early youth they were led away by a man of Polish extraction, though a British subject,
one Count Prometesky, who had thrown himself into every revolutionary movement on the Continent,
had fought under Kosciusko in Poland, joined the Carbonari in Italy, and at last escaped, with
health damaged by a wound, to teach languages and military drawing in England, and, unhappily,
to spread his principles among his pupils, during the excitement connected with the Reform
Bill. Under his teaching my poor brothers became such democrats that they actually married
the two daughters of a man from Cumberland named Lewthwayte, whom Lord Erymanth had turned
out of one of his farms for his insolence and radicalism; and not long after they were engaged
in the agricultural riots, drilling the peasants, making inflammatory speeches, and doing all
they could to bring on a revolution.  Dreadful harm was done on the Erymanth estate, and the
farm from which Lewthwayte had been expelled suffered especially, the whole of the ricks and
buildings being burnt down, though the family of the occupant was saved, partly by Prometesky's
exertions.

When the troops came, both he and my brothers were taken with arms in their hands; they were
tried by the special commission and sentenced to death.  Lewthwayte and his son were actually
hung; but there was great interest made for Ambrose and Eustace, and in consideration of their
early youth (they were not twenty-two) their sentence was commuted to transportation for life,
and so was Prometesky's, because he was half a foreigner, and because he was proved to have
saved life.

My father would not see them again, but he offered their wives a passage out to join them,
and wanted to have had their two babies left with him, but the two young women refused to part
with them; and it was after that that he married again, meaning to cast them off for ever,
though, as long as their time of servitude lasted, he sent the wives an allowance, and as soon
as his sons could hold property, he gave them a handsome sum with which to set themselves up
in a large farm in the Bush.

And when little Percy died, he wanted again to have his eldest grandson sent home to him, and
was very much wounded by the refusal which came only just before his death.  His will had left
the estate to the grandson, as the right heir. On it depend all the conveniences of life. Health,
the greatest of blessings, depends on industry--beauty, on health. If ladies, then, wish to
be beautiful, they must be industrious; they must animate their countenances
with that blooming health which comes from the SPINNING-WHEEL.

The fair sex, when rightly and industriously employed, are justly termed the beauty of this lower
creation. Beauty without virtue is contemptible. Merit only gains the heart. Idleness is disgraceful.
Industry is the ornament of wealth, the support and consolation of poverty. We hope soon to see
the time, when the fair daughters of America will be clothed in the
manufactures of their own hands.



I was very glad to linger on, for I clung to the home, and looked at every bush and flower,
blossoming for the last time, almost as if I were dying, and leaving them to a sort of fiend.
My mother's old friends, Lady Diana Tracy and Lord Erymanth, her brother, used to bemoan with
me the coming of this lad, born of a plebeian mother, bred up in a penal colony, and, no doubt,
uneducated except in its coarsest vices.  Lord Erymanth told at endless length all the advice
he had given my father in vain, and bewailed the sense of justice that had bequeathed the property
to such a male heir as could not fail to be a scourge to the country.  Everyone had some story
to tell of Ambrose's fiery speeches and insubordinate actions, viewing Eustace as not so bad
because his mere satellite--and what must not their sons be?

The only person who had any feeling of pity or affection for them was old Miss Woolmer.  She
was the daughter of a former clergyman of Mycening, the little town which is almost at our
park-gates.  She was always confined to the house by rheumatic-gout.  She had grown up with
my brothers.  I sometimes wondered if she had not had a little tenderness for one of them,
but I believe it was almost elder-sisterly. She told me much in their excuse.  My father had
never been the fond, indulgent father to them that I remembered him, but a strict, stern authority
when he was at home, and when he was absent leaving them far too much to their own devices;
while Prometesky was a very attractive person, brilliant, accomplished, full of fire and of
faith in his theories of universal benevolence and emancipation.

She thought, if the times had not been such as to bring them into action, Ambrose would have
outgrown and modified all that was dangerous in his theories, and that they would have remained
mere talk, the ebullition of his form of knight-errantry; for it was generous indignation and
ardour that chiefly led him astray, and Eustace was always his double: but there were some
incidents at the time which roused him to fury.  Lewthwayte was a Cumberland man, who had inherited
the stock and the last years of a lease of a farm on Lord Erymanth's property; he had done
a good deal for it, and expended money on the understanding that he should have the lease renewed,
but he was a man of bold, independent northern tongue, and gave great offence to his lordship,
who was used to be listened to with a sort of feudal deference.  He was of the fierce old Norse
blood, and his daughters were tall, fair, magnificent young women, not at all uneducated nor
vulgar, and it was the finding that my brothers were becoming intimate at his farm that made
Lord Erymanth refuse to renew the lease and turn the family out so harshly, and with as little
notice as possible.

The cruelty, as they thought it, was, Miss Woolmer said, most ill-judged, and precipitated
the very thing that was dreaded.  The youths rushed into the marriage with the daughters, and
cast in their lot with all that could overturn the existing order of things, but Miss Woolmer
did not believe they had had anything to do with the rick-burning or machine-breaking.  All
that was taken out of their hands by more brutal, ignorant demagogues.  They were mere visionaries
and enthusiasts according to her, and she said the two wives were very noble-looking, high-spirited
young women.  She had gone to see them several times when their husbands were in prison, and
had been much struck with Alice, Ambrose's wife, who held up most bravely; though Dorothy,
poor thing, was prostrated, and indeed her child was born in the height of the distress, when
his father had just been tried for his life, and sentenced to death.

It was their birth and education that caused them to be treated so severely; besides, there
was no doubt of their having harangued the people, and stirred them up, and they were seen,
as well as Prometesky, at the fire at what had been Lewthwayte's farm; at least, so it was
declared by men who turned King's evidence, and the proof to the contrary broke down, because
it depended on the wives, whose evidence was not admissible; indeed that--as the law then stood--was
not the question.  Those who had raised the storm were responsible for all that was done in
it, and it was very barely that their lives were spared.

That was the comfort Miss Woolmer gave.  No one else could see any at all, except a few old
women in the parish, who spoke tenderly of poor Mr. Ambrose and Mr. Eustace; but then they
had sons or brothers who had been out with the rioters, and after these twenty-six years no
one remembered the outrages and terrors of the time with anything but horror; and the coming
of the wild lad from the Bush was looked on as the end of all comfort.

I meant, as soon as I heard he was on the way, to leave Arghouse, make visits among friends,
and decide on my future home, for, alas! there was no one who wanted me.  I was quite alone
in the world; my mother's cousins were not near, and I hardly knew them; and my only relations
were the bushrangers, as Lady Diana Tracy called them.

She was sister to Lord Erymanth, and widow to an Irish gentleman, and had settled in the next
parish to us, with her children, on the death of her husband.

Her little daughter, Viola, had been spending the day with me, and it was a lovely spring evening,
when we sat on the lawn, wondering whether I should ever care for anything so much as for those
long shadows from the fir woods upon the sloping field, with the long grass rippling in the
wind, and the border of primroses round the edge of the wood.

We heard wheels and thought it was the carriage come for Viola, much too soon, when out ran
one of the maids, crying, "Oh! Miss Alison, he is come.  There's ever so many of them!"

I believe we caught hold of one another in our fright, and were almost surprised when, outstripping
lame old Richardson, as he announced "Mr. Alison!" there came only three persons.  They were
the two tallest men I had ever seen, and a little girl of eight years old.  I found my hand
in a very large one, and with the words "Are you my aunt Lucy?"  I was, as it were, gathered
up and kissed.  The voice, somehow, carried a comfortable feeling in the kindness of its power
and depth; and though it was a mouth bristly with yellow bristles, such as had never touched
me before, the honest friendly eyes gave me an indescribable feeling of belonging to somebody,
and of having ceased to be alone in the world.

"Here is Eustace," he said, "and little Dora," putting the child forward as she backed against
him, most unwilling to let me kiss her. "And, I did not know I had another aunt."

"No," I said, starting between, for what would Lady Diana's feelings have been if Viola had
carried home an Australian kiss?  "This is Miss Tracy."

Viola's carriage was now actually coming, and as I went into the house with her, she held me,
whispering to me to come home at once with her, but I told her I could not leave them in that
way, and they were really my nephews.

"You are not afraid?" she said.

"What do you think he could do to me?" I asked, laughing.

"He is so big," said Viola.  "I never saw any one so big, but I think he is like Coeur de Lion.
Ah!"  We both shrieked, for a most uncanny monster was rearing up in front of us, hopping about
the hall, as far as was allowed by the chain that fastened it to the leg of a table.

"Mr. Alison brought it, ma'am," said Richardson, in a tone of disgust and horror.  "Will you
have the carriage out, Miss Alison, and go down to the Wyvern?  Shuh! you brute!  He shan't
hurt you, my dear ladies. I'll stand between."

We had recovered our senses, however, enough to see that it was only a harmless kangaroo; and
Dora came running out, followed by Harold, caressing the beast, calling it poor Nanny, and
asking where he should shut it up for the night.

I suggested an outhouse, and we conducted the creature thither in procession, hearing by the
way that the kangaroo's mother had been shot, and that the animal itself, then very young,
and no bigger than a cat, had taken Harold's open shirt front for her pouch and leaped into
his bosom, and that it had been brought up to its present stature tame at Boola Boola.  Viola
went with us, fed the kangaroo, and was so much interested and delighted, that she could hardly
go away, Eustace making her a most elaborate and rather absurd bow, being evidently much impressed
by the carriage and liveried servants who were waiting for her.

"Like the Governor's lady!" he said.  "And I know, for I've been to a ball at Government House."

He plainly cared much more for appearances than did Harold.  He was not so tall, much slighter,
with darker hair, rather too shiny, and a neatly turned up moustache, a gorgeous tie and watch
chain, a brilliant breast pin, a more brilliant ring, and a general air that made me conclude
that he regarded himself as a Sydney beau.  But Harold, in his loose, rough grey suit, was
very different.  His height was extraordinary, his breadth of chest and shoulder equally gigantic,
though well proportioned, and with a look of easy strength, and, as Viola had said, his head
was very much what one knows as the Lion Heart's, not Marochetti's trim carpet knight, but
Vertue's rugged portrait from the monument at Fontevrand.  There was the same massive breadth
of feature, large yet not heavy, being relieved by the exceeding keenness and quickness of
the light but very blue eyes, which seemed to see everywhere round in a moment, as men do in
wild countries.  The short thick yellow curly beard and moustache veiled the lower part of
the face; but the general expression, when still, was decidedly a sad one, though a word or
a trick of Dora's would call up a smile all over the browned cheeks and bright eyes.  His form
and colouring must have come from the Cumberland statesman, but people said his voice and expression
had much of his father in them; and no one could think him ungentlemanly, though he was not
like any English gentleman.  He wore no gaieties like Eustace, the handkerchief loosely knotted
round his neck sailor fashion was plain black, and he had a gold ring on his little finger.

Dora had the same yellow curly hair, in tight, frizzly rings all over her head, like a boy's,
a light complexion, and blue eyes, in a round, pug-nosed face; and she hung so entirely on
Harold that I never doubted that she was his sister till, as we were sitting down to eat, I
said, "Can't you come a little way from your brother?"

Eustace gave his odd little giggle, and said, "There, Dora!"

"I'm not his sister--I'm his wife!"

"There!" and Eustace giggled again and ordered her away; but I saw Harold's brow knit with
pain, and as she began to reiterate her assertion and resist Eustace, he gently sat her down
on the chair near at hand, and silently made her understand that she was to stay there; but
Eustace rather teasingly said:

"Aunt Lucy will teach you manners, Dora.  She is my sister, and we have brought her home to
send her to school."

"I won't go to school," said Dora; "Harold would not."

"You won't get away like him," returned Eustace, in the same tone.

"Yes, I shall.  I'll lick all the girls," she returned, clenching a pair of red mottled fists
that looked very capable.

"For shame, Dora!" said the low voice.

"Harold did," said she, looking up at me triumphantly; "he beat all the boys, and had to come
back again to Boola Boola."

I longed to understand more, but I was ashamed to betray my ignorance of my near relations,
for I did not even know whether their mothers were alive; but I saw that if I only listened,
Eustace would soon tell everything.  He had a runaway chin, and his mouth had a look at times
that made me doubt whether there were not some slight want in his intellect, or at least weakness
of character.  However, I was relieved from the fear of the vice with which the neighbourhood
had threatened us, for neither of them would touch wine or beer, but begged for tea, and drank
oceans of it.

We had not long finished, when Richardson brought me a note from Lady Diana Tracy, saying she
had sent the carriage for me that I might at once take refuge from this unforeseen invasion.

I felt it out of all possibility that I should thus run away, and yet I knew I owed an apology
for Harold's finding me and the old servants in possession, so I began to say that my old friend
had sent the carriage for me.--I had been taken by surprise, their journey (one of the first
across the Isthmus) had been so much quicker than I had expected, or I should have left the
house free for them.

"Why?" asked Harold.  And when I answered that the place was his and I had no business there,
he did not seem to see it.  "It is your home," he said; "you have always lived here."

I began explaining that this was no reason at all; but he would not hear of my going away,
and declared that it was I who belonged to the place, so that I confessed that I should be
very thankful to stay a little while.

"Not only a little while," he said; "it is your home as much as ever, and the best thing in
the world for us."

"Yes, yes," responded Eustace; "we kept on wondering what Aunt Lucy would be like, and never
thought she could be such a nice young lady." 

Mr. Francis H. Lee, of Salem, has a curious collection of a hundred
or more snuff-boxes of former generations.

They are of various patterns; some are made of shell and tipped with silver, and look quite
ancient. Simon Elliot, of Boston, and later Wm.
  Mr. Smith has got a school in Auckland, you know."

I did not know, but I found that a year or two after the death of my brother Ambrose, his widow
had become the second wife of the master of a boarding-school at Sydney, and that it was there
that Harold, at ten years old, had fought all the boys, including the step-children, and had
been so audacious and uncontrollable, that she had been forced to return him to his uncle and
aunt in the "Bush."  Eustace had been with the Smiths at Sydney until her move to Auckland,
he had even been presented, and had been to a ball at Government House, and thus was viewed
as the polished member of the family, though, if he had come as master, I should never have
been drawn, as I was by Harold's free, kindly simplicity, into writing my thanks to Lady Diana,
and saying that I could not leave my nephews so abruptly, especially as they had brought a
little sister.

It was gratifying to see that Harold was uneasy till the note was sent off and the carriage
dismissed. "You are not going?" he said, as persuasively as if he were speaking to Dora, and
I strove to make a wise and prudent answer, about remaining for the next few days, and settling
the rest when he had made his plans.

Then I proposed to take Dora up to bed, but though manifestly very weary, the child refused,
and when her brother tried to order her, she ran between Harold's knees, and there tossed her
head and glared at me. He lifted her on his lap, and she drew his arm round her in defence.
Eustace said he spoilt her, but he still held her, and, as she dropped asleep against his breast,
Eustace related, almost in a tone of complaint, that she had cared for no one else ever since
the time she had been lost in the Bush, and Harold had found her, after three days, in the
last stage of exhaustion, since which time she had had neither eyes, ears, nor allegiance for
any other creature, but that she must be taught something, and made into a lady.

Harold gazed down on her with his strange, soft, melancholy smile, somehow seeming to vex Eustace,
who accused him of not caring how rough and uncultivated she was, nor himself either.

"We leave the polish to you," said Harold.

"Why, yes," said Eustace, simpering, "my uncle Smith gave me the first advantages in Sydney,
and everyone knew my father was 'a gentleman.'"

Harold bit the hair that hung over his lip, and I guessed, what I afterwards found to be the
truth, that his stepfather was no small trial to him; being, in fact, an unprosperous tutor
and hanger-on on some nobleman's family, finally sent out by his patrons in despair, to keep
school in Sydney.

Poor Ambrose had died of lock-jaw from a cut from an axe very soon after his emancipation,
just as his energy was getting the farm into order, and making things look well with the family,
and, after a year or two, Alice, deceived by the man's air and manners, and hoping to secure
education for her son, had married, and the effect had been that, while Harold was provoked
into fierce insubordination, Eustace became imbued with a tuft-hunting spirit, a great contrast
to what might have been expected from his antecedents.

I cannot tell whether I found this out the first evening, or only gradually discovered it,
with much besides.  I only remember that when at last Harold carried Dora upstairs fast asleep,
and my maid Colman and I had undressed her and put her into a little bed in a room opening
out of mine, I went to rest, feeling rejoiced that the suspense was over and I knew the worst.
I felt rather as if I had a magnificent wild beast in the house; and yet there was a wonderful
attraction, partly from the drawing of kindred blood, and partly from the strength and sweetness
of Harold's own face, and, aunt-like, I could not help feeling proud, of having such a grand
creature belonging to me, though there might be a little dread of what he would do next.

In the morning all seemed like a dream, for Dora had vanished, leaving no trace but her black
bag; but while I was dressing a tremendous cackling among my bantams caused me to look out,
when I beheld them scurrying right and left at sight of the kangaroo leaping after the three
strangers, and my cat on the top of the garden wall on tiptoe, with arched back, bristling
tail, and glassy eyes, viewing the beast as the vengeful apotheosis of all the rats and mice
she had slaughtered in her time.

From the stairs I heard Dora scouting her brother's orders to tidy herself for breakfast, adding
that Harry never did, to which he merely replied, "I shall now.  Come."

