We had a pretty hard time before freedom. My mother was a field woman. When they didn't need
her to work they hired her out and they got the pay. The master mated the colored people. I
got fed from the white folks table whenever I curried the horses. I was sorter raised up with
Mr. Nealy's children. They didn't mistreat me. On Saturday the mistress would blow a cone shell
and they knowed to go and get the rations. We got plenty to eat. They had chickens and ducks
and geese and plenty milk. They did have hogs. They had seven or eight guineas and a lot of
peafowls. I never heard a farm bell till I come to Arkansas. The children et from pewter bowls
or earthen ware. Sometimes they et greens or milk from the same bowl, all jess dip in. The
Yankees took me to General Hood's army and I was Captain McCondennen's helper at the camps.[HW:
?] We went down through Marietta and Atlanta and through Kingston. Shells come over where we
lived. I saw 'em fight all the time. Saw the light and heard the roaring of de guns miles away.
It looked like a storm where the army went along. They tramped the wheat and oats and cotton
down and turned the horses in on the corn. The slaves show did hate to see the Yankees waste
everything. They promised a lot and wasn't as good as the old masters. All dey wanted was to
be waited on too. The colored folks was freed when the Yankees took all the stock and cattle
and rations. Everybody had to leave and let the government issue them rations. Everybody was
proud to be free. They shouted and sung. They all did pretty well till the war was about to
end then they was told to scatter and no whars to go. Cabins all tore down or burned. No work
to do. There was no money to pay. I wore old uniforms pretty well till I come to Arkansas.
I been here in Hazen since 1906. I come on a boat from Memphis to Linden. Colonel Stocker brought
a lot of us on the train. The name of the boat was Molly Hamilton. It was a big boat and we
about filled it. I show was glad to get back on a farm.

I don't know what is goin to become of the young folks. Everything is so different now and
when I was growin up I don't know what will become of the younger generation.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Emaline Neland, Marianna, Arkansas Age:
Born 1859

"I was born two years before the War. I was born in Murray County, Tennessee. It was middle
Tennessee. When I come to remembrance I was in Grant County, Arkansas. When I remember they
raised wheat and corn and tobacco. Mother's master was Dr. Harrison. His son was married and
me and my brother Anderson was give to him. He come to Arkansas 'fore ever I could remember.
He was a farmer but I never seen him hit a lick of work in my life. He was good to me and my
brother. She was good too. I was the nurse. They had two children. Brother was a house boy.
Me and her girl was about the same size but I was the oldest. Being with the other children
I called her mother too. I didn't know no other mother till freedom.

"Freedom! Well, here is the very way it all was: Old master told her (mother) she was free.
He say, 'Go get your children, you free as I is now.' Ain't I heard her say it many a time?
Well, mother come in a ox wagon what belong to him and got us. They run me down, caught me
and got me in the wagon. They drove twenty-five miles. M. Henri," said the little Chevalier, "it
is a great honour to fight for one's King; one fears nothing then: a single royalist should always
drive before him ten republicans."

Henri now returned and joined de Lescure, who was in possession of the town, though the citadel
was still in the hands of General Quetineau, who held the command
of the garrison. It was not till the cousins had embraced each other,
that Henri saw that de Lescure was wounded.

"After the War pa and ma got back together and lived together till she died. There was five
days' difference in their deaths. They died of pneumonia. He was 64 years old and she was 54
years old. I was at home when pa come from the War. All my sisters was light, one sister had
sandy hair like pa. She was real light. Ma was a good all 'round woman. She cooked more than
anything else. She nursed. Dr. Harrison told her to stay till her husband come back or all
the time if he didn't ever come back. Ma never worked in the field. When pa come he moved us
on a place to share crop. Ma never worked in the field. He was buying a home in Grant County.
He started to Mississippi and stopped close to Helena and ten or twelve miles from Marianna.
He had a soldier friend wouldn't let him go. He told him this was a better country. He decided
to stay down in here.

"I heard a whole heap about the Ku Klux. One time when a crowd was going to church, we heard
horse's feet coming; sound like they would run over us. We all got clear out of reach so they
wouldn't run over us. They had on funny caps was all I could see, they went so fast. We give
them the clear road and they went on. That is all I ever seen of the Ku Klux.

"I seen Dr. Harrison's wife. She was a little old lady but we left after I went there.

"I used to sew for the public. Yes, white and colored folks. I learnt my own self to sew. I
never had but one boy in my life. He died at seven weeks old. I raised a stepson. I married
twice. I married at home both times. Just a quiet marriage and a colored preacher married me
both times.

"The present conditions is hard. I want things and can't get 'em. If I had the strength to
hold out to work I could get along.

"The present generation--young white and black--blinds me. They turns corners too fast. They
going so fast they don't have time to take advice. They promise to do better but they don't.
They do like they want to do and don't tell nobody till they done it. I say they just running
way with their selves.

"I get $8 and a little help along. I'm thankful for it. It is a blessing I tell you."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Henry Nelson
                    904 E. Fifth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 70

"My name is Henry Nelson. I was born in Arkansas--Crittenden County near Memphis, Tennessee.
I was born not far from Memphis but on this side.

"My mother's name was Adeline Taylor. That was her old slavery folks' name. She was a Taylor
before she married my father--Nelson. My father's first name was Green. I don't remember none
of my grandparents. My father's mother died before I come to remember and I know my mother's
mother died before I could remember.

"My father was born in Mississippi--Sardis, Mississippi--and my mother was a Tennesseean--Cartersville[HW:?]
Tennessee, twenty-five miles above Memphis. [HW: Carter, in Carter County, about 35 m. north
of Memphis, but no Cartersville.] [TR: moved from bottom of following page.]

"After peace was declared, they met in Tennessee. That was where my mother was born, you know.
They fell in love with one another in Shelby County, and married there. My mother had been
married once before during slavery time. She had been made to marry by her master. Her first
husband was named Eli. He was my oldest sister's father. Him and my mother had the same master
and missis. She was made to marry him. She was only thirteen years old when she married him.
She was fine and stout and her husband was fine and stout, and they wanted more from that stock.
I don't know how old he was but he was a lot older than she was. He was a kind of an elderly
man. She had just one child by him--my oldest sister, Georgia. She was only married a short
time before freedom came.

"My father farmed. He was always a farmer--raised cotton and corn. My mother was a farmer too.
Both of them--that is both of her husbands--were farmers.

"My mother and father used to go off to places to dance and the pateroles would get after them.
You had to have a pass to go off your place and if you didn't have a pass, they would make
you warm. Some of them would get caught sometimes and the pateroles would whip them. They would
sure got whipped if they didn't have a pass.

"The old master come out and told them they were free when peace was declared. He said, 'You
are free this morning--free as I am.'

"Right after the War, my mother come further down in Tennessee, and that is how she met my
father where she was when she was married. They went farming. They farmed on shares--sharecropped.
They were on a big place called Ensley place. The man that owned the place was called Nuck Ensley.

"My mother and father didn't have no schooling. I never heard that they were bothered by the
Ku Klux.

"She didn't live with her first husband after slavery. She left him when she was freed. She
never did intend to marry him. She was forced to that."

Interviewer's Comment

Nelson evidently rents rooms. A yellow sallow-faced, cadaverous, and dissatisfied looking "gentleman"
went into the house eyeing me suspiciously as he passed. In a moment he was out again interrupting
the old man with pointless remarks. In--out again--standing over me--peering on my paper in
the offensive way that ill-bred people have. He straightened up with a disgusted look on his
face. He couldn't read shorthand.

"What's that you're writin'?"

"Shorthand."

"What's that about?"

"History."

"History uv whut?"

"Slavery."

"He don't know nothin' about slavery."

"Thank you. However, if he says he does, I'll just continue to listen to him if you don't mind."

"Humph," and the "yellow gentleman" passed in.

Out again--eyeing both the old man and me with disgust that was unconcealed. To him, "You don't
know whutchu're doin'."

Deep silence by all. Exit the yellow brother.

To the old man, I said, "Is that your son?"

"Lawd, no, that's jus' a roomer."

Out came the yellow brother again. "See here, Uncle, if you want me to fix that fence you'd
bettuh come awn out heah now. It's gettin' dark."

I closed my notebook and arose. "Don't let me interfere with your program, Brother Nelson."

The old man settled back in his chair. His eyes inspected the sky, his jaw "sorta" set. The
yellow brother looked at him a minute and passed on.

Five minutes later. Enter, the Madam. She also was of the yellow variety with the suspicious
and spiteful look of an undersized black Belgian police dog. A moment of silence--a word to him.

"You don't know whutchu're doin'." Silence all around. To me, "You're upsettin' my work."

I arose. "Madam, I'm sorry."

The old man spoke, "You ain't keepin' me from nothin'."

"Well, I said, you've given me a nice start; I'll come again and get the rest."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Henry Nelson, Edmondson, Arkansas Age:
70 [TR: Appears to be same as last informant despite different address.]

"My mother belong to the Taylors close to Carterville, Tennessee. My father never was sold.
He belong to the Nelsons. My parents married toreckly after the surrender and come on to this
state. I was born ten miles from Edmondson. Their names was Adeline and Green Nelson. They
didn't get nothing after freedom like land or a horse. I'm seventy years old and I would have
known.

"I was at Alton, Illinois in the lead works thirteen years ago and I had a stroke. I been cripple
ever since.

"My folks never spoke of being nothing but field hands. Folks used to be proud of their crops,
go look over them on Sunday when company come. Now if they got a garden they hide it and don't
mention it. Times is changed that way.

"Clothes ain't as lasty as they used to be. People has a heap more money to spend and don't
raise and have much at home as they did when I was a child. Times is all turned around and
folks too. I always had plenty till I couldn't do hard work. I farmed my early life. We didn't
have much money but we had rations and warm clothes. I cleared new ground, hauled wood, big
logs. I steamboated on the Sun, Kate Adams, and One Arm John. I helped with the freight. I
railroaded with pick and shovel and in the lead mines. I worked from Memphis to Helena on boats
a good while. I come back here to farm. Time is changed and I'm changed.

"It has been so long since I heard my parents tell about slavery I couldn't tell you straight.
She told till she died, talked about how the Yankees done when they come through. They took
axes and busted up good furniture. They et up and wasted the rations, then humor up the black
folks like they was in their favor when they was settin' out wasting their living. They done
made it to live on. Some followed them and some stayed on. They wanted freedom but it wasn't
like they thought it would be. They didn't know how it would be. They didn't know it meant
set out. Seem like they left. In some ways times was better and some ways it was worse. They
had to work or starve is what they told me. That's the way I found freedom. 'Course their owners
made them work and he looked out for the ration and in slavery.

"I keeps up my own self all I can. I don't get help."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Iran Nelson
                    603 E. Fourteenth Ave., Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 77

"Yes ma'm, they fotch me from Mississippi to Arkansas on the steamboat--you know they didn't
have railroads then. They fotch my mother and they went back after grandfather and grandmother too.

"Dr. Noell was our master and he had us under mortgage to his brother-in-law. They fotched
us here till he could get straight from that debt, but fore that could be, we got free.

"I knowed slavery times. I member seem' em lash some of the rest but you know I wasn't big
enough to put in the fields. Old mistress say when I got big enough, she goin' take me for
a house girl. When they fotched mama and grandmother here they had eighty some odd head of
niggers. They was gwine carry em back home after they got that mortgage paid but the war come.

"I member when the Yankees come, my white folks would run and hide and hide us colored folks
too. Boss man had the colored folks get all the meat out of the smokehouse and hide it in the
peach orchard in the grass.

"I used to play with old mistress daughter Addie. We would play in the parlor and after we
moved to town some of the little girls would pick up and go home. You know these town folks
didn't believe in playin' with the colored folks.

"After mama was free she stayed right there on the place and made a crop. Raised eight hundred
bales and the average was nine. Mama plowed and hoed too. I had to work right with her too.

"I never went to school but once. I learned my ABC's but couldn't read. My next ABC's was a
hoe in my hand. Mama had a switch right under her belt. I worked but I couldn't keep up. Just
seein' that switch was enough. I had a pretty good time when I was young, but I had to go all
the time."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: James Henry Nelson
                    1103 Orange, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 82
Occupation: Gardener

"I member all about the war--why of cose. I saddled many a cavalry hoss. I tell you how I know
how old I am. Old master, Henry Stanley of Athens, Alabama, moved to Palaski, Tennessee and
left me with young mistress to take care of things. One day we was drivin' up some stock and
I said, 'Miss Nannie, how old is you?' And she said, 'I'm seventeen.' I was old enough to have
the knowledge she would know how old I was and I said, 'How old am I?' And she said, 'You is
seven years old.' That was durin' the war.

"I remember the soldiers comin' and stoppin' at our building--Yankees and Southern soldiers,
too. They fit all around our plantation.

"The Yankees taken me when I was a little fellow. About two years after the war started, young
Marse Henry went to war and took a colored man with him but he ran away--he wouldn't stay with
the Rebel army. So young Marse Henry took me. I reckon I was bout ten. I know I was big enough
to saddle a cavalry hoss. We carried three horses--his hoss, my hoss and a pack hoss. You know
chillun them days, they made em do a man's work. I studied bout my mother durin' the war, so
they let me go home.

"One day I went to mill. They didn't low the chillun to lay around, and while I was at the
mill a Yankee soldier ridin' a white hoss captured me and took me to Pulaski, Tennessee and
then I was in the Yankee army. I wasn't no size and I don't think he would a took me if it
hadn't been for the hoss.

"We come back to Athens and the Rebels captured the whole army. Colonel Camp was in charge
and General Forrest captured us and I was carried south. We was marchin' along the line and
a Rebel soldier said, 'Don't you want to go home and stay with my wife?' And so I went there,
to Millville, Alabama. Then he bound me to a friend of his and I stayed there till the war
bout ended. I was getting along very well but a older boy 'suaded me to run away to Decatur,
Alabama.

"Oh I seen lots of the war. Bof sides was good to me. I've seen many a scout. The captain would
say 'By G----, close the ranks.' Captains is right crabbed. I stayed back with the hosses.

"After the war I worked about for this one and that one. Some paid me and some didn't.

"I can remember back to Breckenridge; and I can remember hearin' em say 'Hurrah for Buchanan!'
I'm just tellin' you to show how fur back I can remember. I used to have a book with a picture
of Abraham Lincoln with an axe on his shoulder and a picture of that log cabin, but somebody
stole my book.

"I worked for whoever would take me--I had no mother then. If I had had parents to make me
go to school, but I got along very well. The white folks taught me not to have no bad talk.
They's all dead now and if they wasn't I'd be with them.

"I'm a natural born farmer--that's all I know. The big overflow drownded me out and my wife
died with pellagra in '87. She was a good woman and nice to white folks. I'm just a bachin'
here now. I did stay with my daughter but she is mean to me, so I just picked up my rags and
moved into this room where I can live in peace. I'm a christian man, and I can't live right
with her. When colored folks is mean, they's meaner than white folks.

"I'm gettin' along very well now. I been with white folks all my day--and it's hard for me
to get along with my folks.

"In one way the world is crueler than they used to be. They don't appreciate things like they
used to. They have no feelin's and don't care nothin' bout the olden people.

"Well, good-bye, I'm proud of you."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: John Nelson, Holly Grove, Arkansas Age: 76

"My parents was Jazz Nelson and Mahaney Nelson. He come from Louisiana durin' slavery. She
come from Richmond, Virginia. I think from what they said he come to Louisiana from there too.
They was plain field hands.

"My folks belong to Miss Mary Ann Richardson and Massa Harve Richardson. They had five children
and every one dead now. They lived at Duncan Station.

"The white folks told em they was free. They had no place to go and they been workin' the crop.
White folks glad for em to stay and work on. And the truth is they was glad to git to stay
on cause they had no place to go. They kept stayin' on a long time.

"I was so small I don't know if the Ku Klux ever did come bout our place at tall."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Lettie Nelson
                    St. Marys Street, Helena, Arkansas
Age: 55 or 56? 

But we will do our best and I will see what resources I can get together to keep you until
next year, when we can all make a fresh start."
Another class of farmers, and we suspect that their number is too
large, has said, "You never made anything this year. Grandma was
raised in Virginia. She was light. Mama was light. They was carried from Virginia to Louisiana
in wagons. They found clothes along the road people had lost. She said several bundles of good
clothes. They thought they had dropped off of wagons ahead of them. They washed and wore the
clothes. Some of 'em fit so they wore them. Mama left her husband and brother in Virginia.
Ed Smith was her second husband. He was a light man. My grandpa was a field man. I never heard
if grandpa was sold. Jimmie Stansberry was the man that bought or brought mama and grandma
to Louisiana. Mama cooked and worked in the field both. Grandma did too. She cooked in Louisiana
more than mama. They belong to Lou and Jimmie Stansberry and they had two boys. They lived
close to Minden, Louisiana. I don't know so much about my parents and grandma talked but we
didn't pay enough attention to remember it all. She was old and got things confused.

"They was glad when freedom come but they lived on with Jimmie Stansberry. I remember them.
Grandma raised me after my parents died. Then she lived with me till she died. She was awful
old when she died. They would talk about how different Virginia and Louisiana was. It took
them a long time to make that trip."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Mattie Nelson
                    710 E. Fourth Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 72

"I was born in Chicot County, Arkansas in '65. They said I was born on the roadside while we
was on our way here from Texas. They had to camp they said. Some people called it emigrate.
Now that's the straightest way I can tell it.

"Our mistress and master was named Chapman. I member when I was a child mistress used to be
so good to us. After surrender my parents stayed right on there with the Chapmans, stayed right
on the place till they died.

"My mudder and pappy neither one of em could read or write, but I went to school. I always
was apt. I am now. I always was one to work--yes ma'm--rolled logs, hope clean up new ground--yes
ma'm. When we was totin' logs, I'd say, "Put the big end on me" but they'd say, "No, you're
a woman." Yes ma'm I been here a long time. I do believe in stirrin' work for your livin',
yes ma'm, that's what I believe in.

"I been workin' ever since I was six years old. My daughter was just like me--she had a gift,
but she died. I seen all my folks die and that lets me know I got to die too.

"White folks used to come along in buggies, and hoss back too, and stop and watch me plow.
Seem like the hotter the sun was the better I liked it.

"Yes ma'm, I done all kinds a work and I feels it now, too."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Dan Newborn
                    1000 Louisiana, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I was born in 1860. Born in Knoxville, Tennessee. I suppose it was in the country.

"Solomon Walton was my mother's owner and my father belonged to the Newborns. My grandmother
belonged to the Buggs in Richmond, Virginia and she was sold to the Waltons. When my mother
died in '65 my grandmother raised me. After she was freed she went to the Powell Clayton place.
Her daughter lived there and she sent up the river and got her. I went too. Me and two more boys.

"I never went to school but about thirty days. Hardly learned my alphabet. 

"No, M. de Lescure," he said, as that officer tendered him General Quetineau's sword, "no, I
will never take it from him who has won it with so much constancy and valour. I must own I
envy you your good fortune, but I will not rob you of the fruits
of your exertions."

 Beat her on the head and that was part of
her death. Every spring her head would run. She said they didn't get much of somethin' to eat.

"I was married 'fore my grandmother died--to this wife that died two months ago. We stayed
together fifty-seven years.

"To my idea, this younger generation is too wild--not near as settled as when I was comin'
up. They used to obey. Why, I slept in the bed with my grandmother till I was married. She
whipped me the day before I was married. It was 'cause I had disobeyed her. Children will resist
their mothers now.

"I think the colored people is better off now 'cause they got more privilege, but the way some
of 'em use their privilege, I think they ought to be slaves.

"My grandmother taught me not to steal. My white folks here have trusted me with two and three
hundred dollars. I don't want nothin' in the world but mine.

"I been workin' here for Fox Brothers thirty-eight years and they'll tell you there's not a
black mark against me.

"I used to be a mortar maker and used to sample cotton. Then I worked at the Cotton Belt Shops
eight years.

"I've bought me a home that cost $780.

"I don't mind tellin' about myself 'cause I've been honest and you can go up the river and
get my record.

"Out of all due respect to everybody, the Yankees is the ones I like.

"Vote? Oh yes, Republican ticket. I like Roosevelt's administration. If I could vote now, I'd
vote for him. He has done a whole lot of good."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Sallie Newsom
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age 75?

"Miss, I don't know my age, but I know I is old. I'm sick now.

"My grandma's mistress and mama's mistress and my mistress was Miss Jennie Brawner at Thomasville,
Georgia. Me and my oldest sister was born in Atlanta. Then freedom come on. My own papa wanted
mama to follow him to Mississippi. He had a wife there. She wouldn't go. She stayed on a while
with Mr. Acy and Miss Jennie. They come from Virginia. Her name was Catherine.

"Grandma toted her big hoop dresses about and carried her trains up off the floor. Combed her
long glossy hair. Mama was a house girl too, but then grandma took to the kitchen. She was
the cook then.

"Old Miss Jennie wanted mama to give her my oldest sister Lulu, so mama gave her to her. Then
when we started to come to Holly Grove, Mississippi, Miss Jennie still wanted her. Mama didn't
want to part from her. She was married again and brought me but my aunts told mama to leave
her there, she would have a good home and be educated, so she 'greed to leave her two years.
She sent back for her at the end of two years; she wrote and didn't want to come. She was still
at Miss Jennie's. I haben seen her from the day we left Atlanta till this very day. A woman,
colored woman, was here in Brinkley once seen her. Said she was so fine and nice. Had nice
soft skin and was well to do. I have wrote but my letters come back. I know Miss Jennie is
dead, and my sister may be by now.

"My papa was Abe Brooks. His master was Mars Jonas Brooks. Old master give him to the young
master. He was rich, rich, and traveled all time. His pa give him a servant. He cooked for
him, drove his carriage--they called it a brake in them days--followed him to the hotels and
bar-rooms. He drink and give him a dram. When he was freed he come to Mississippi with the
Brooks to farm for them. I went to see my papa at Waterford, Miss.

"When we was at Holly Springs, Mississippi my cousin was a railroad man so he helped me run
away. He paid my way. I come to Clarendon. I cooked, washed and ironed. In two or three years
I went back to see mama. They was glad to see me. They had eight children.

"I couldn't guarantee you about the eight younger children, but there ain't a speck of no kind
of blood about me and Lulu Violet but African. We are slick black Negroes. (She is very black,
large and bony.)

