All the silver bells that swing with the turning of the great ring of light which lies around
that land were softly chiming; and the sound of their commotion went down like dew upon the
golden ways of the city, and the long alleys of blossoming trees, and the meadows of asphodel,
and the curving shores of the River of Life.

At the hearing of that chime, all the angels who had been working turned to play, and all who
had been playing gave themselves joyfully to work. Those who had been singing, and making melody
on different instruments, fell silent and began to listen. Those who had been walking alone
in meditation met together in companies to talk. And those who had been far away on errands
to the Earth and other planets came homeward like a flight of swallows to the high cliff when
the day is over.

It was not that they needed to be restored from weariness, for the inhabitants of that country
never say, "I am tired." But there, as here, the law of change is the secret of happiness,
and the joy that never ends is woven of mingled strands of labour and repose, society and solitude,
music and silence. Sleep comes to them not as it does to us, with a darkening of the vision
and a folding of the wings of the spirit, but with an opening of the eyes to deeper and fuller
light, and with an effortless outgoing of the soul upon broader currents of life, as the sun-loving
bird poises and circles upward, without a wing-beat, on the upholding air.

It was in one of the quiet corners of the green valley called Peacefield, where the little
brook of Brighthopes runs smoothly down to join the River of Life, that I saw a company of
angels, returned from various labours on Earth, sitting in friendly converse on the hill-side,
where cyclamens and arbutus and violets and fringed orchids and pale lady's-tresses, and all
the sweet-smelling flowers which are separated in the lower world by the seasons, were thrown
together in a harmony of fragrance. There were three of the company who seemed to be leaders,
distinguished not only by more radiant and powerful looks, but by a tone of authority in their
speech and by the willing attention with which the others listened to them, as they talked
of their earthly tasks, of the tangles and troubles, the wars and miseries that they had seen
among men, and of the best way to get rid of them and bring sorrow to an end.

"The Earth is full of oppression and unrighteousness," said the tallest and most powerful of
the angels. His voice was deep and strong, and by his shining armour and the long two-handed
sword hanging over his shoulder I knew that he was the archangel Michael, the mightiest one
among the warriors of the King, and the executor of the divine judgments upon the unjust. "The
Earth is tormented with injustice," he cried, "and the great misery that I have seen among
men is that the evil hand is often stronger than the good hand and can beat it down.

"The arm of the cruel is heavier than the arm of the kind. The unjust get the better of the
just and tread on them. I have seen tyrant kings crush their helpless folk. I have seen the
fields of the innocent trampled into bloody ruin by the feet of conquering armies. I have seen
the wicked nation overcome the peoples that loved liberty, and take away their treasure by
force of arms. I have seen poverty mocked by arrogant wealth, and purity deflowered by brute
violence, and gentleness and fair-dealing bruised in the winepress of iniquity and pride.

"There is no cure for this evil, but by the giving of greater force to the good hand. The righteous
cause must be strengthened with might to resist the wicked, to defend the helpless, to punish
all cruelty and unfairness, to uphold the right everywhere, and to enforce justice with unconquerable
arms. Oh, that the host of Heaven might be called, arrayed, and sent to mingle in the wars
of men, to make the good victorious, to destroy all evil, and to make the will of the King prevail!

"We would shake down the thrones of tyrants, and loose the bands of the oppressed. We would
hold the cruel and violent with the bit of fear, and drive the greedy and fierce-minded men
with the whip of terror. We would stand guard, with weapons drawn, about the innocent, the
gentle, the kind, and keep the peace of God with the sword of the angels!"

As he spoke, his hands were lifted to the hilt of his long blade, and he raised it above him,
straight and shining, throwing sparkles of light around it, like the spray from the sharp prow
of a moving ship. Bright flames of heavenly ardour leaped in the eyes of the listening angels;
a martial air passed over their faces as if they longed for the call to war.

But no silver trumpet blared from the battlements of the City of God; no crimson flag was unfurled
on those high, secret walls; no thrilling drum-beat echoed over the smooth meadow. Only the
sound of the brook of Brighthopes was heard tinkling and murmuring among the roots of the grasses
and flowers; and far off a cadence of song drifted down from the inner courts of the Palace
of the King.

Then another angel began to speak, and made answer to Michael. He, too, was tall and wore the
look of power. But it was power of the mind rather than of the hand. His face was clear and
glistening, and his eyes were lit with a steady flame which neither leaped nor fell. Of flame
also were his garments, which clung about him as the fire enwraps a torch burning where there
is no wind; and his great wings, spiring to a point far above his head, were like a living
lamp before the altar of the Most High. By this sign I knew that it was the archangel Uriel,
the spirit of the Sun, clearest in vision, deepest in wisdom of all the spirits that surround
the throne.

"I hold not the same thought," said he, "as the great archangel Michael; nor, though I desire
the same end which he desires, would I seek it by the same way. On enquiry, I found she was
the Carthagenian schooner Josefa. At this moment the splash of oars was heard right below where
we stood, and a very roguish--looking craft, also schooner--rigged, about a hundred tons burden
apparently, passed rapidly beneath us, tearing up the shining surface of the sleeping harbour,
with no fewer than fourteen sweeps. She was very heavily rigged, with her main mast raking over
the tafferel, and full of men. I noticed she had a long gun on a pivot, and several carronades
mounted.

Presently there was a good deal of whispering amongst the group of half--a--dozen gentlemen who
were with me in the lookout, who, from their conversation, I soon found were underwriters on
the schooner outside.

"Heyday," said one, "the Antonio is off somewhat suddenly this morning."

"Where may that schooner, that is sweeping so handsomely down harbour, belong to?" said I to
the gentleman who had spoken.

'To Havanna,' was the answer; "but I fear he intends to overhaul the Josefa there, and she would
be a good prize to him, now since Carthagena has thrown off allegiance to Spain."

"But he will never venture to infract the neutrality of the waters surely," rejoined I, "within
sight of the squadron too?"

The gentleman I spoke to smiled incredulously; and as I had nothing particular to do for a couple of
hours, I resolved to remain and see the issue.

In a few minutes, the sea--breeze came thundering down, in half a gale of wind, singing through
the rigging of the ships alongside of the wharfs, and making the wooden blinds rattle again.
The Antonio laid in her sweeps, spread her canvass in an instant, and was lying--to, off the
fort at Port Royal, to land her pass, in little more than half--an hour from the time she passed
us, a distance of no less than seven miles, as she had to sail it.

In a minute the jib sheet was again hauled over to leeward, and away she was like an arrow, crowding
all sail. I had seldom seen a vessel so weatherly before. In an hour more, she was abreast of
the town, and abeam of the Josefa, who, from being cooped up in the narrow inner channel, had,
ever since the sea--breeze set down, been bothering with short tacks, about, and about, every
minute.

Presently the Antonio dashed in through a streak of blue water in the reef, so narrow, that
to look at it, I did not think a boat could have passed, and got between the Josefa and Port
Royal, when he took in his gaff--topsail, and hauled down his flying--jib, but made no hostile demonstration,
beyond keeping dead to leeward, tack for tack with the Josefa; and
once, when the latter seemed about to bear up and run past him, I
noticed the foot of his foresail lift, and his sails shiver as he
came to the wind, as much as to say, "Luff again, my lady, or I'll
fire at you."

It was now clear Josefa did not like her playmate, for she cracked on all the canvass she
could carry; and, having tried every other manoeuvre to escape without effect, she at length,
with reckless desperation, edged away a point, and flew like smoke through another gap, even
smaller and shallower than the one the Antonio had entered by. We all held our breath until she
got into blue water again, expecting every moment to see her stick fast, and her masts tumble
over the side; but she scraped clear very cleverly, and the next moment was tearing and plunging
through the tumbling waves outside of the reefs. Antonio, as I expected, followed her, but all
very quietly, still keeping well to leeward, however. Thus they continued
for half an hour, running to the southward and eastward, when I noticed
the Havanero, who had gradually crept up under the Josefa's lee--quarter,
hoist his colours and pennant, and fire a gun at her. She immediately
tacked in great confusion, and made all sail to get back through the
canal into the inner channel, with the other schooner close at her
heels, blazing away from his long gun as fast as he could load.

Then I looked more closely at him who was speaking and recognised the beauty of the archangel
Raphael, as it was pictured long ago:

  "A seraph winged; six wings he wore to shade
  His lineaments divine; the pair that clad
  Each shoulder broad came mantling o'er his breast,
  With regal ornament; the middle pair
  Girt like a starry zone his waist, and round
  Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold
  And colours dipped in Heav'n; the third his feet
  Shadowed from either heel with feathered mail,
  Sky-tinctured grain.

"Too well I know," he spoke on, while the smile on his face deepened into a look of pity and
tenderness and desire, "too well I know that power corrupts itself and that knowledge cannot
save. There is no cure for the evil that is in the world but by the giving of more love to
men. The laws that are ordained for earth are strange and unequal, and the ways where men must
walk are full of pitfalls and dangers. Pestilence creeps along the ground and flows in the
rivers; whirlwind and tempest shake the habitations of men and drive their ships to destruction;
fire breaks forth from the mountains and the foundations of the world tremble. Frail is the
flesh of man, and many are his pains and troubles. His children can never find peace until
they learn to love one another and to help one another.

"Wickedness is begotten by disease and misery. Violence comes from poverty and hunger. The
cruelty of oppression is when the strong tread the weak under their feet; the bitterness of
pride is when the wise and learned despise the simple; the crown of folly is when the rich
think they are gods, and the poor think that God is not.

"Hatred and envy and contempt are the curse of life. And for these there is no remedy save
love--the will to give and to bless--the will of the King himself, who gives to all and is
loving unto every man. But how shall the hearts of men be won to this will? How shall it enter
into them and possess them? Even the gods that men fashion for themselves are cruel and proud
and false and unjust. How shall the miracle be wrought in human nature to reveal the meaning
of humanity? How shall men be made like God?"

At this question a deep hush fell around the circle, and every listener was still, even as
the rustling leaves hang motionless when the light breeze falls away in the hour of sunset.
Then through the silence, like the song of a far-away thrush from its hermitage in the forest,
a voice came ringing: "I know it, I know it, I know it."

Clear and sweet--clear as a ray of light, sweeter than the smallest silver bell that rang the
hour of rest--was that slender voice floating on the odorous and translucent air. Nearer and
nearer it came, echoing down the valley, "I know it, I know it, I know it!"

Then from between the rounded hills, among which the brook of Brighthopes is born, appeared
a young angel, a little child, with flying hair of gold, and green wreaths twined about his
shoulders, and fluttering hands that played upon the air and seemed to lift him so lightly
that he had no need of wings. As thistle-down, blown by the wind, dances across the water,
so he came along the little stream, singing clear above the murmur of the brook.

All the angels rose and turned to look at him with wondering eyes. Multitudes of others came
flying swiftly to the place from which the strange, new song was sounding. Rank within rank,
like a garden of living flowers, they stood along the sloping banks of the brook while the
child-angel floated into the midst of them, singing:

"I know it, I know it, I know it! Man shall be made like God because the Son of God shall become
a man."

At this all the angels looked at one another with amazement, and gathered more closely about
the child-angel, as those who hear wonderful news.

"How can this be?" they asked. "How is it possible that the Son of God should be a man?"

"I do not know," said the young angel. "I only know that it is to be."

"But if he becomes a man," said Raphael, "he will be at the mercy of men; the cruel and the
wicked will have power upon him; he will suffer."

"I know it," answered the young angel, "and by suffering he will understand the meaning of
all sorrow and pain; and he will be able to comfort every one who cries; and his own tears
will be for the healing of sad hearts; and those who are healed by him will learn for his sake
to be kind to each other."

"But if the Son of God is a true man," said Uriel, "he must first be a child, simple, and lowly,
and helpless. It may be that he will never gain the learning of the schools. The masters of
earthly wisdom will despise him and speak scorn of him."

"I know it," said the young angel, "but in meekness will he answer them; and to those who become
as little children he will give the heavenly wisdom that comes, without seeking, to the pure
and gentle of heart."

"But if he becomes a man," said Michael, "evil men will hate and persecute him: they may even
take his life, if they are stronger than he."

"I know it," answered the young angel, "they will nail him to a cross. But when he is lifted
up, he will draw all men unto him, for he will still be the Son of God, and no heart that is
open to love can help loving him, since his love for men is so great that he is willing to
die for them."

"But how do you know these things?" cried the other angels. "Who are you?"

"I am the Christmas angel," he said. "At first I was sent as the dream of a little child, a
holy child, blessed and wonderful, to dwell in the heart of a pure virgin, Mary of Nazareth.
There I was hidden till the word came to call me back to the throne of the King, and tell me
my name, and give me my new message. For this is Christmas day on Earth, and to-day the Son
of God is born of a woman. So I must fly quickly, before the sun rises, to bring the good news
to those happy men who have been chosen to receive them."

As he said this, the young angel rose, with arms outspread, from the green meadow of Peacefield
and, passing over the bounds of Heaven, dropped swiftly as a shooting-star toward the night
shadow of the Earth. The other angels followed him--a throng of dazzling forms, beautiful as
a rain of jewels falling from the dark-blue sky. But the child-angel went more swiftly than
the others, because of the certainty of gladness in his heart.

And as the others followed him they wondered who had been favoured and chosen to receive the
glad tidings.

"It must be the Emperor of the World and his counsellors," they thought. But the flight passed
over Rome.

"It may be the philosophers and the masters of learning," they thought. But the flight passed
over Athens.

"Can it be the High Priest of the Jews, and the elders and the scribes?" they thought. But
the flight passed over Jerusalem.

It floated out over the hill country of Bethlehem; the throng of silent angels holding close
together, as if perplexed and doubtful; the child-angel darting on far in advance, as one who
knew the way through the darkness.

The villages were all still: the very houses seemed asleep; but in one place there was a low
sound of talking in a stable, near to an inn--a sound as of a mother soothing her baby to rest.

All over the pastures on the hillsides a light film of snow had fallen, delicate as the veil
of a bride adorned for the marriage; and as the child-angel passed over them, alone in the
swiftness of his flight, the pure fields sparkled round him, giving back his radiance. For
unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.

So I said within myself that I also would go with the shepherds, even to Bethlehem. And I heard
a great and sweet voice, as of a bell, which said, "Come!" And when the bell had sounded twelve
times, I awoke; and it was Christmas morn; and I knew that I had been in a dream.

Yet it seemed to me that the things which I had heard were true.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LITTLE ESSAY

CHRISTMAS-GIVING AND CHRISTMAS-LIVING

I

The custom of exchanging presents on a certain day in the year is very much older than Christmas,
and means very much less. It has obtained in almost all ages of the world, and among many different
nations. It is a fine thing or a foolish thing, as the case may be; an encouragement to friendliness,
or a tribute to fashion; an expression of good nature, or a bid for favour; an outgoing of
generosity, or a disguise of greed; a cheerful old custom, or a futile old farce, according
to the spirit which animates it and the form which it takes.

But when this ancient and variously interpreted tradition of a day of gifts was transferred
to the Christmas season, it was brought into vital contact with an idea which must transform
it, and with an example which must lift it up to a higher plane. The example is the life of
Jesus. The idea is unselfish interest in the happiness of others.

The great gift of Jesus to the world was himself. He lived with and for men. He kept back nothing.
In every particular and personal gift that he made to certain people there was something of
himself that made it precious.

For example, at the wedding in Cana of Galilee, it was his thought for the feelings of the
giver of the feast, and his wish that every guest should find due entertainment, that lent
the flavour of a heavenly hospitality to the wine which he provided. 

How blind people are! thought I. Even my cousins, little creole urchins, dressed in small transparent
cambric shifts, tied into a knot over their tails, and with devil the thing else on, seemed to perceive
no difference, as they pulled me about, with a volley of "Cousin Taam, what you bring we?"

At
length, dinner was announced, and we adjourned from the dark balcony
to the dining room.

"Come, there is light enough here; my rank will be noticed now, surely--but no, so patience."
 Once, when a paralytic was brought
to Jesus on a bed, he surprised everybody, and offended many, by giving the poor wretch the
pardon of his sins, before he gave new life to his body. That was just because Jesus thought
before he gave; because he desired to satisfy the deepest need; because in fact he gave something
of himself in every gift. All true Christmas-giving ought to be after this pattern.

Not that it must all be solemn and serious. For the most part it deals with little wants, little
joys, little tokens of friendly feeling. But the feeling must be more than the token; else
the gift does not really belong to Christmas.

It takes time and effort and unselfish expenditure of strength to make gifts in this way. But
it is the only way that fits the season.

The finest Christmas gift is not the one that costs the most money, but the one that carries
the most love.

II

But how seldom Christmas comes--only once a year; and how soon it is over--a night and a day!
If that is the whole of it, it seems not much more durable than the little toys that one buys
of a fakir on the street-corner. They run for an hour, and then the spring breaks, and the
legs come off, and nothing remains but a contribution to the dust heap.

But surely that need not and ought not to be the whole of Christmas--only a single day of generosity,
ransomed from the dull servitude of a selfish year,--only a single night of merry-making, celebrated
in the slave-quarters of a selfish race! If every gift is the token of a personal thought,
a friendly feeling, an unselfish interest in the joy of others, then the thought, the feeling,
the interest, may remain after the gift is made.

The little present, or the rare and long-wished-for gift (it matters not whether the vessel
be of gold, or silver, or iron, or wood, or clay, or just a small bit of birch bark folded
into a cup), may carry a message something like this:

"I am thinking of you to-day, because it is Christmas, and I wish you happiness. And to-morrow,
because it will be the day after Christmas, I shall still wish you happiness; and so on, clear
through the year. I may not be able to tell you about it every day, because I may be far away;
or because both of us may be very busy; or perhaps because I cannot even afford to pay the
postage on so many letters, or find the time to write them. But that makes no difference. The
thought and the wish will be here just the same. In my work and in the business of life, I
mean to try not to be unfair to you or injure you in any way. In my pleasure, if we can be
together, I would like to share the fun with you. Whatever joy or success comes to you will
make me glad. Without pretense, and in plain words, good-will to you is what I mean, in the
Spirit of Christmas."

It is not necessary to put a message like this into high-flown language, to swear absolute
devotion and deathless consecration. In love and friendship, small, steady payments on a gold
basis are better than immense promissory notes. Nor, indeed, is it always necessary to put
the message into words at all, nor even to convey it by a tangible token. To feel it and to
act it out--that is the main thing.

There are a great many people in the world whom we know more or less, but to whom for various
reasons we cannot very well send a Christmas gift. But there is hardly one, in all the circles
of our acquaintance, with whom we may not exchange the touch of Christmas life.

After all, Christmas-living is the best kind of Christmas-giving.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SHORT CHRISTMAS SERMON

KEEPING CHRISTMAS

    ROMANS, xiv, 6: He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto
    the Lord.

It is a good thing to observe Christmas day. The mere marking of times and seasons, when men
agree to stop work and make merry together, is a wise and wholesome custom. It helps one to
feel the supremacy of the common life over the individual life. It reminds a man to set his
own little watch, now and then, by the great clock of humanity which runs on sun time.

But there is a better thing than the observance of Christmas day, and that is, keeping Christmas.

Are you willing to forget what you have done for other people, and to remember what other people
have done for you; to ignore what the world owes you, and to think what you owe the world;
to put your rights in the background, and your duties in the middle distance, and your chances
to do a little more than your duty in the foreground; to see that your fellow-men are just
as real as you are, and try to look behind their faces to their hearts, hungry for joy; to
own that probably the only good reason for your existence is not what you are going to get
out of life, but what you are going to give to life; to close your book of complaints against
the management of the universe, and look around you for a place where you can sow a few seeds
of happiness--are you willing to do these things even for a day? Then you can keep Christmas.

Are you willing to stoop down and consider the needs and the desires of little children; to
remember the weakness and loneliness of people who are growing old; to stop asking how much
your friends love you, and ask yourself whether you love them enough; to bear in mind the things
that other people have to bear on their hearts; to try to understand what those who live in
the same house with you really want, without waiting for them to tell you; to trim your lamp
so that it will give more light and less smoke, and to carry it in front so that your shadow
will fall behind you; to make a grave for your ugly thoughts, and a garden for your kindly
feelings, with the gate open--are you willing to do these things even for a day? Then you can
keep Christmas.

Are you willing to believe that love is the strongest thing in the world--stronger than hate,
stronger than evil, stronger than death--and that the blessed life which began in Bethlehem
nineteen hundred years ago is the image and brightness of the Eternal Love? Then you can keep
Christmas.

And if you keep it for a day, why not always?

But you can never keep it alone. 

       "The devil, it cannot be, surely," for the black--eyed and black--haired
pale face, seemed annoyingly attentive to the militaire.

At length this said officer addressed me, "Captain Cringle, do me
the honour to take wine."

Mary started at the Captain.

  
  "She gazed, she redden'd like a
  rose, Syne pale as ony lily."

  
    
    Aha, thought I, all right still. She trembled
    extremely, and her mother at length noticed
    it, I saw; but all this while, B----was balancing a land--crab on
his silver fork, while, with a wine--glass in his other claw, he was
ogling me in some wonderment.

  I saw the awkwardness of the affair,
    and seizing a bottle of catchup for one of sercial,
    I filled my glass with such vehemence, that
    I spilt a great part of it; but even the
    colour and flavour did not recover me; so, with
      a face like a northwest moon, I swilled off the potion, and instantly
fell back in my chair "Poisoned! by all that is nonsensical--poisoned
catchup oh Lord!" and off I started to my bedroom, where, by dint
of an ocean of hot water, I got quit of the sauce, and clinching the
whole with a caulker of brandy, I returned to the dinner--table a
good deal abashed, I will confess, but endeavouring most emphatically
all the while to laugh it off as a good jest.

  But my Mary was flown; she had been
    ailing for some days, her mother alleged,
    and she required rest.

  Presently my aunt rose, and we were left to our bottle,
  and sorry am I to say it, I bumpered away,
  from some strong unaccountable impulse, until
    I got three parts drunk, to the great surprise of the rest of the
party, for guzzling wine was not certainly a failing of mine, unless
on the strong provocation of good fellowship.

  
  
  Mary did not appear that evening, and I may as well tell
    the whole truth, that she was pledged to marry me whenever I got
my step; and next morning all this sort of thing was duly communicated
to mamma, &c. &c. &c., and I was the happiest, and so forth--all of
which, as it concerns no one but myself, if you please, we shall say
no more about it.

  
  Put me in loving remembrance of the lowly lodging in the stable of
          Bethlehem,
  The sorrows of the blessed Mary, the poverty and exile of the
          Prince of Peace.
  For His sake, give me a cheerful courage to endure my lot,
  And an inward comfort to sweeten it.

  Purge my heart from hard and bitter thoughts.
  Let no shadow of forgetting come between me and friends far away:
  Bless them in their Christmas mirth:
  Hedge me in with faithfulness,
  That I may not grow unworthy to meet them again.

  Give me good work to do,
  That I may forget myself and find peace in doing it for Thee.
  Though I am poor, send me to carry some gift to those who are
          poorer,
  Some cheer to those who are more lonely.
  Grant me the joy to do a kindness to one of Thy little ones:
  Light my Christmas candle at the gladness of an innocent and
          grateful heart.

  Strange is the path where Thou leadest me:
  Let me not doubt Thy wisdom, nor lose Thy hand.
  Make me sure that Eternal Love is revealed in Jesus, Thy dear Son,
  To save us from sin and solitude and death.

       *       *       *       *       *

