The doctor was just hurrying out from his office; he must have had a long distance to go, for
he was starting off before the usual time for office hours was over. Gertrude apologized, and
begged the doctor to excuse her for not having come earlier to see him; she had been very busy
with her invalid, and could not get away before. "Never mind; as you have come, I will wait
a few minutes," said the physician, briefly; "Come in; how is your husband?"

Gertrude went into the room, and told the doctor about her sick husband. It was Steffan, a
strong, young man, on whom the mountain sickness had seized with unusual violence. The doctor
silently shook his head. He took a small mortar that stood on the office table, and shook into
it some stuff which he ground with the marble pestle. His eyes fell on the child who stood
by Gertrude's side, gazing earnestly at the doctors's occupation. The little creature had something
unusual about her, and attracted attention at once. Under her thick black hair and heavy brows,
her big eyes looked forth with a solemn gaze, as if everything she saw gave her food for thought.

"He had no one but himself to blame for it, I fancy," said the doctor, as he filled some small
square papers with his powders.

"No, no! he was not the least of a brawler; he was a quiet industrious fellow. They had rented
some of our rooms, and lived there peaceably and happily for three whole years, and never was
an unkind word exchanged between them. But he was a stranger in these parts; he was never called
anything but the Bergamasker, and the other fellows could never forgive him for having won
the prettiest and most courted girl in the whole village. They never ceased to tease and irritate
him, and on this especial evening at the Rehbock they must have been unusually offensive. Apparently
they were all somewhat excited, for they could afterwards give no clear account of the affair,
but the end was that the Bergamasker came home fatally wounded, and died the next day. Everything
has been different among us since the Rehbock was built. Our village used to be quiet and orderly;
every one was contented to work all the week and rest on Sunday. Nobody ever heard of such
a thing as noisy drinking and rowdyism. But I have another errand with you now, doctor. Lene
charged me on her death bed to attend to it. She did not leave any money, but she had an excellent
outfit. She bade me sell her bedstead and her bureau, and bring you the proceeds, to settle
what she owed you. She was very anxious that I should see to it, for she felt that you had
done a great deal for her; and she spoke of how often you had climbed the hill both by day
and night, to visit her. So, please give me the bill, doctor, so that I may settle it at once,
as I promised her."

"What relatives has the child?" asked the doctor shortly.

"She has none at all in these parts," replied Gertrude. "She has been with me all through her
mother's illness, and now she is mine. Her mother's family are all gone. She might perhaps
be sent to her father's parish in Bergamaskische, but I shall not do that; she belongs now to us."

"I would not go there," said the child firmly in a low tone, clinging to Gertrude's dress with
both hands.

The doctor opened a big book, tore out a leaf, and drew his pen twice across the closely written
page.

"There," he said, handing the cancelled sheet to Gertrude, "that is all the bill I shall give you."

"Oh, doctor, may God reward you," said Gertrude. "Go, child, and thank the doctor, for you
owe him a great deal."

The child obeyed after her own fashion. She planted herself before the big man, looked steadily
at him with her great black eyes and said somewhat hoarsely,

"Thank you." It sounded more like a command than anything else.

The doctor laughed.

"She is rather alarming," he said, "she is evidently not accustomed to say anything she does
not really mean. I like that. But come, I must be off," and handing the medicine to Gertrude
he left the room quickly so as to avoid her repeated thanks.

The little boy was standing where his mother had left him, still staring at the restless horse.
The doctor looked kindly at the little fellow.

"Would you like to take care of a horse?" he asked, as he got into his wagon.

"No, I should like to drive one of my own," replied the child without hesitation.

"Well, you are quite right there: stick to that, my boy," said the doctor, and drove away.

As Gertrude, holding a child by each hand, climbed the hillside, the boy said gaily,

"Say, mother, I can have one, can't I?"

"Do you mean to be a gentleman like the doctor, and own a horse, Dietrich?" asked the mother.

The boy nodded.

"So you can, if you will work hard for it, and stick to your work well. You see the doctor
had to do that for a long time, and has to do it still, and if you stick to your work as he
has, and never stop nor get tired till it is done, and well done, then you will be a gentleman,
even if you are not a doctor. It doesn't matter what you do; you may be a gentleman if you
persevere and work hard and faithfully."

"Yes, with a horse," said Dietrich.

The little girl had been listening intently to every word of this conversation. Her black eyes
blazed out suddenly as she looked up to Gertrude and said decidedly,

"I'll be one too."

"Yes, Yes, Mr. Veronica! Mr. Veronica! that sounds well," cried Dietrich, and he laughed aloud
at the idea.

Veronica thought it no laughing matter, however. She pressed Gertrude's hand firmly and looked
up with glowing eyes, as she said, "I can be one too, can't I mother; say?"

"You should not laugh, Dietrich," said his mother kindly. "Veronica can be exactly what you
can be. If she works steadily, and does not grow tired and careless, but keeps on till her
work is finished and well finished, she will be a lady as you will be a gentleman."

Veronica trotted along contentedly after this explanation. She did not speak again. The frowning
brows were smoothed and the fiery eyes now shone with the light of childish joy as she caught
sight of the first flowers that began to peep above the ground. The child's face looked fairly
charming now; her well-formed features framed by the dark locks, made a beautiful picture.

Dietrich was also silent: but he was pursuing the same train of thought, for he broke out presently,

"Will she have a horse too?"

"Why not, as well as you. It all depends on how steadily and how faithfully you both work,"
replied Gertrude.

"Well, then, we shall have two horses," cried the boy, joyfully. "Where shall we put the stable,
mother?"

"We can see to that bye and bye, there is plenty of time for that. It won't do for you to be
thinking about the horse all the time, you know, you must keep your mind on your work if you
mean to do it well."

Dieterli said no more. He was busy trying to decide on which side of the house it would be
best to put the stable.

That night, Gertrude again hurried down the hill to the doctor's houses and this time she brought
him back with her.

Her husband's illness had taken a turn for the worse, and the next day he died.

CHAPTER II.

WITH FRESH COURAGE.

A few days later a numerous company of mourners followed another black bier to the sunny church-yard.

Steffan, the saddler, had been universally respected. He had begun life modestly; there had
been no large industries in Tannenegg in his early days. Very well, then. Excepting those four, between
all the rest and the syphilitic there is nothing but the difference of chance."

There came into the doctor's voice at this moment a note of intense
feeling; for these were matters of which evidence came to him every
day.

"I tell you, sir, that such people are deserving of sympathy, because they are suffering. If
they have committed a fault, they have at least the plea that they are expiating it. No, sir,
let me hear no more of that hypocrisy.
 And
Steffan, Gertrude and their little Dieterli lived simple, useful and contented lives and were
a good example to all the neighborhood.

Now, to-day, Gertrude stood weeping by the window and looked across to the church-yard, where
that very morning they had laid her good man. Now she must make her way alone; she had no one
to help her, no one belonging to her except her two children, and for them she must work, for
she never admitted for a moment that the orphaned Veronica was not hers to care for as well
as her own little Dietrich.

She did not lose courage. As soon as the first benumbing effect of her sorrow had passed a
little, she gazed up at the shining heavens and said to herself, "He who has sent this trouble
will send me strength to bear it;" and in full trust in this strength she went to work, and
seemed able to do more than ever.

Her property, outside of the little capital which her husband had laid by, consisted of her
house, which was free from debt, and of which she could let a good part. The question was,
whether she could carry on the remunerative business that her husband had been engaged in,
until little Dietrich should be old enough to assume the direction of it, and pursue it as
his father had done before him. Gertrude retained the services of a workman who had been employed
by Steffan, and she herself did not relax her labors early and late, to oversee the work and
keep all in running order.

For the first few weeks after her mother's death little Veronica sat every evening weeping
silently by herself in a dark corner of the room. When Gertrude found her thus grieving, she
asked kindly what ailed her, and again and again, she received only this sorrowful answer,

"I want my mother."

Gertrude drew the child tenderly towards her, caressing her, and promising her that they would
all go together some day to join her mother, who had only gone on before, that she might get
strong and well again. And gradually this second mother grew to take the place of her own,
and no game, no amusement could draw the loving child away from Gertrude's side. Only Dietrich
could succeed in enticing her to go with him now and then.

The lad's love for his mother showed itself in a louder and more demonstrative manner. He often
threw his arms about her neck, crying passionately,

"My mother belongs to me and to nobody else."

Then Veronica's brows would knit over her flashing eyes, until they formed a long straight
line across her face. But she did not speak. And Gertrude would put one arm about the boy's
neck and the other about the little girl's, and say,

"You must not speak so, Dietrich. I belong to you both, and you both belong to me."

In general, the two children were excellent friends, and completely inseparable. They were
not happy unless they shared everything together and wherever one went, the other must go too.
They went regularly to school every morning, and were always joined by two of the neighbors'
children, who went with them.

These were, the son of the shoemaker, long, bony Jost, with his little, cunning eyes,--and
the sexton's boy, who was as broad as he was long, and from whose round face two pale eyes
peered forth upon the world, in innocently stupid surprise. His name was Blasius, nicknamed Blasi.

Often, on the way to school, quarrels arose between Dieterli and the two other boys. It would
occur to one of them to try what Veronica would do if he were to give her a blow with his fist.
Scarcely had he opened his attack when he found himself lying on his nose, while Dieterli played
a vigorous tattoo on his back with no gentle fists. Or the sport would be to plant a good hard
snow-ball between Veronica's shoulders, with the mortifying result to the aggressive boy, of
being pelted in the face with handfuls of wet snow, until he was almost stifled, and cried
out for mercy. Dieterli was not afraid of either of them; for though smaller and thinner than
either, he was also much more lithe, and could glide about like a lizard before, behind and
all around his adversaries, and slip through their fingers while they were trying to catch
him. Veronica was well avenged, and went on the rest of her way without fear of molestation.
If one of the other lads felt in a friendly mood, and wished to act as escort to the little
girl, Dieterli soon gave him to understand that that was his own place, and he would give it
up to no one.

Every evening "Cousin Judith" came for a little visit, to give Gertrude some friendly advice
about the children, or the household economy. She used to say that the gentle widow needed
some one now and then to show claws in her behalf, and Judith knew herself to be in full possession
of claws, and of the power to use them, an accomplishment of which she was somewhat proud.
One evening she crossed over between daylight and dark, and entered the room where Veronica
was, with her favorite plaything in her hand, moving it back and forth as she sat in the window
in the waning light. She could read very nicely now for two years had passed since she had
lost her own mother, and had become Gertrude's child. Many a time had she read over the motto
which shone out so mysteriously from the breast of the opened rose. To-day she was poring over
it again, and her absorption in "that same old rose," as Dieterli called it, had so annoyed
the lively lad that he left her, and had gone out into the kitchen to find his mother. When
Judith saw the girl sitting thus alone, buried in thought, she asked her what she was thinking
about in the twilight all by herself.

Dieterli, whom no sound ever escaped, had heard Cousin Judith come in, and came running in
from the kitchen to see what was going on. Veronica looked up at the visitor and asked earnestly,

"Cousin Judith, what is fortune?"

"Ah, you are always asking some strange question that no one else ever thought of asking;"
said Cousin Judith, "where on earth did you ever hear of fortune?"

"Here," said Veronica, holding up the rose with the golden verse in the centre. "Shall I read
it to you?"

"Yes, do, child."

Veronica read--

    "Fortune stands ready, full in sight;
     He wins who knows to grasp it right."

"Well, it means this--I should say--fortune is whatever anyone wants the most."

"Fortune is a horse, then," said Dietrich quickly.

Veronica sat thinking. "But, Cousin Judith," she said presently, "how can any one 'grasp fortune'?"

"With your hands," replied Cousin Judith unhesitatingly, "You see, our hands are given us to
work with, and if we use them diligently and do our work well, as it ought to be done, then
fortune comes to us; so don't you see we 'grasp it' with our hands?"

The verse had now become endued with life, and meant something real and attractive to Veronica.
She did not lay her rose out of her hand for a long time, that evening, notwithstanding that
Dietrich cast threatening glances upon it, and finally broke out in vexation,

"I will tear off the spring some time, and spoil the thing altogether."

The rose was not put into the book and the book into the cup-board, until the time came for
the children to say their evening prayers. This was the closing act of every day; and it was
so fixed and regular a habit, that the children never needed to be bidden to fold their hands,
and kneel to ask God's blessing before they slept.

CHAPTER III.

NINE YEARS LATER.

A sunshiny Easter morning shone over hill and valley. A crowd of holiday-making people poured
out of the little church at Tannenegg, and scattered in every direction. A long row of blooming
lads and lassies came in close ranks, moving slowly towards the parsonage. They were the newly-confirmed
young people of the parish, who had that day partaken of the Communion for the first time.
They were going to the house of their pastor, to express their gratitude for his careful and
tender teaching and guidance, before they went out into the world. Among these were Dietrich
and Veronica. Gertrude stood at a little distance from the church, and watched the procession
as it passed by. Her eyes were filled with tears of pleasurable emotion, as she noticed that
her dark-eyed Veronica was conspicuous among all the maidens for the tasteful neatness of her
costume, and for the sweetness and grace of her bearing. The glance which Veronica cast upon
the mother in passing was full of love and gratitude; and seemed to repeat the words that the
faithful girl had spoken in the morning, as she left her to go to the church. "I cannot thank
you enough, as long as I live, for what you have done for me, mother." A yet brighter expression
of happiness crossed Gertrude's countenance when the young men came in procession after the
girls, as her eyes fell on the well-formed lad, a head taller than his companions, who nodded
at her, and greeted her with merry laughing looks, kissing his hand again and again, and yet
once again. That was her tall handsome Dietrich. His mother's heart leaped in her breast at
the sight of his fresh young life, so full of hope and promise. Gertrude waited till the visit
to the pastor was over, and the young people had separated on their various paths. Then she
in her turn entered the parsonage. She wished herself to speak her thanks to this true and
long tried adviser and friend, for all that he had done for her children.

"You are a fortunate mother," said the aged pastor, after he had listened to Gertrude's expressions
of gratitude. "Those are two uncommon children that the good God has confided to your care,
and I feel the greatest interest in them. The lad has a clear head, and a winning grace that
draws everyone to him. Veronica is serious and conscientious; she has a calm steady nature
and can be depended upon for fidelity to duty, such as it is rare to find. The children will
be your stay and comfort in your old age. May you keep them in the paths of virtue."

"With God's help;" said Gertrude, and she left the parsonage with tears of happiness in her
eyes. As she passed the garden of her neighbor Judith, the latter called out over the low hedge,

"They have just gone by, all four of them. It always seems to me strange that while all babies
in the cradle look just alike, so that you can't tell them apart, they grow up to be such very
different men and women."

"No, no, these four were never alike," replied Gertrude, "but I agree that they grow more and
more unlike every day."

"Yes, that they do. And of you three near neighbors, you certainly have drawn the best lot
in children," said Judith with enthusiasm, "two like your two are not to be found in a long
day's journey. Veronica will fully repay you for what you have done for her."

"I have been repaid long ago by the child's attachment to me. She has never given me anything
but satisfaction ever since her mother died. If I have any anxiety about Veronica it is lest
she over-work herself. There is something feverish in her love of work; she can never do enough.
No matter how late I go into her room at night, she is always finishing off some piece of work;
and no matter how early I get up in the morning, she has already begun something new. If I
had not positively forbidden it, she would keep at it even on a Sunday. It is a real source
of anxiety to me, lest she should over-work and break down."

"Oh, I don't think you need be afraid of that, Gertrude; work never yet hurt any one, least
of all the young folks. Let her work away. But I don't see the need of her scowling so all
the time. She looks for all the world as if she were fighting and struggling against enemies
and difficulties of all sorts. I like better Dietrich's laughing eyes; they are so full of
fun. When he goes down the street singing--

    'Gladly and merrily
     Live to-day cheerily,
     Black care and sorrow
     Leave till to-morrow,'

it goes right to my heart, and I could sing too for very joy. No one can help loving him."

Gertrude listened with sunshine in her face to these words of praise, but a little cloud of
anxiety shadowed her eyes as she said,

"Yes, God be praised, he is a good boy and means well, but I do wish that he had a little of
Veronica's firmness of purpose. It is very pleasant to have every one like him, but too great
popularity is not always a good thing. And those two companions that are always hanging about
him, are not such as I myself would choose for his friends."

"If they could all be put to some steady work it would be the best thing for them," said Judith.
"Idleness is the mother of mischief. Blasi is not an ill-meaning fellow, but he is lazy, greatly
to his own injury. Long Jost is the worst of the two; a sly-boots, and a rare one too. It is
to be hoped that he will break his own leg, when he's trying to trip some one else up with it."

"No, no, Judith, on this holy Easter day, we will not have such unkind hopes as that. I hope
and believe that the good God holds the children in his protecting hand. We have given them
to him; that is my comfort and support Good-bye, Judith; come often to see us; we are always
glad of your company."

On the evening of this sunny Easter day, while rosy clouds moved slowly across the clear sky,
and the golden glow faded in the far west behind the wooded heights, Gertrude came back from
a long walk in the fields and woods. On one side of her strode Dietrich, talking rapidly and
earnestly: the fresh joy of youth was written in every movement of his little figure, and laughed
from the depths of his clear eyes. On the other side Veronica walked, listening in silence.
Her noble features, above which her black hair fell in shining waves, had a serious, thoughtful
expression, but every now and then, when Dietrich let fall some particularly apt expression,
a look would cross her face that irradiated it like a sunbeam crossing a shadowed plain. Mother
Gertrude looked now proudly at her radiant son, now approvingly at her stately daughter, and
again she lifted grateful glances towards the glowing heavens where she saw promise of another
brilliant day to come. Far and wide, in all Tannenegg, was not to be found that day, such another
happy mother as Gertrude.

When they reached the crossways where the footpath led up by the tavern of the Rehbock, Dietrich
turned into it, and his mother was about to follow him, but Veronica drew her back, saying
anxiously,

"Don't go that way, mother dear; it is not much farther by the other road."

Dietrich laughed aloud.

"Now there it is again. Madame Dupont cried out in horror at this proposition, and argued and pleaded
and wept--but all to no purpose. The girl was immovable. She would not stay under her husband's roof,
and she would take her child with her. It was her right, and no one
could refuse her.

The infant had been crying for hours, but that made no difference.
Henriette insisted that a cab should be called at once.

So she went
back to the home of Monsieur Loches and told him the hideous story.

As she spoke, she walked steadily along the road, and the others followed,

"Well then," said the lad, "let's sing 'Gladly and merrily'"--and he began to sing the familiar
tune.

"To-night I should rather sing the Fisher-boat," said Veronica, and without demur the good-natured
boy dropped his song, and joined his clear tones with Veronica's steady voice, the two harmonizing
perfectly as they sang:

    "A tiny boat, a fisher-boat,
        Tossed lightly on the silver sea;
     Around the rocks, in air, afloat
        The white gulls circle lazily.
     A tiny boat, a fisher-boat--
        The fisher draws his slender line;
     He half in dream-land seems to float.
        Saying, 'to-morrow will be fine.'"

Softly singing, in the soft falling shadows of evening, the happy trio drew towards their home,
and disappeared within the cottage door.

CHAPTER IV.

ALL AT HOME.

Dietrich had already worked for some time in his father's business. It was all in the best
possible condition; the work shop, the tools and materials had been carefully kept up, and
everything was fresh and in good working order. The old customers had not withdrawn their custom,
for the former workman who had served under Steffan for many years had continued his deceased
master's methods, so that the reputation of the work was sustained, and as Fohrensee grew,
so also the saddler's orders grew, and the business flourished. So Dietrich found his trade
ready made to his hand, and as good a prospect lay before him as heart could wish. He took
hold with a good will, and being his own master did not make him the less diligent. He was
determined first to work faithfully till he had thoroughly learned the business, and then to
travel for a while. When he had seen the world a bit he would come back, go on with the business
farther and farther, and become a gentleman; and then--then--where could a happier man be found
than he should be, living with his mother and Veronica in peace and plenty. His mother should
pass her days in happy idleness if she wished, without care, without sorrow, in wealth and
comfort, and Veronica! Yes, he would give Veronica a life far happier and more beautiful than
she had ever dreamed of for herself! While his brain teemed with these pleasant thoughts, Dietrich
sang and whistled at his work all day long, and did good work, too. He had a skilful hand and
a clear head, and his work went successfully on.

Veronica had persuaded her mother to let her stay longer in the Industrial School than was
usual with the young girls of the neighborhood. Even up to the day of her confirmation, she
had taken sewing lessons twice from a most accomplished teacher. A short time before Easter,
the teacher had assured Gertrude that Veronica had made such extraordinary progress, that she
was already prepared to teach, and that she had completed the course taught at that school,
and could learn no more there. Veronica certainly deserved farther training and the teacher
suggested that it would be well worth while for her to take lessons in embroidery of lame Sabina
in Fohrensee. She would then be sure of a position as a teacher, as high as her utmost ambition
could desire.

It had always been Gertrude's plan to have Veronica learn to work at the saddler's business,
as there is a good deal of the fine work which is suitable for women, and which it needs a
woman's hand to carry out. She hoped that in this way her children could always remain together
and with her. The fine embroidery for which lame Sabina was noted, it did not seem to her at
all necessary for Veronica to learn, but she was willing to leave the decision to her. As soon
as Veronica heard of this new work to be learned, she was eager to begin upon it, and she left
her mother no peace until she extracted from her the promise that directly after the confirmation,
this new undertaking should be entered upon.

A few days after Easter Sunday, Veronica went to take her first lesson. It was very early in
the morning when she started to go down to Fohrensee; so early that people were just beginning
to open their windows, and only here and there a sleepy face was to be seen at the door of
a house. She had to go early in order to get in a good day's work, for she was to come home
at night, and it was an hour's walk each way. She knew well the old cottage with the beautiful
carnations illuminating its windows, which was the home of lame Sabina. The windows were already
open, and the door also. She entered and her new life began.

Up in Tannenegg, Dietrich sat at his work, singing and whistling merrily. His mother, busy
with her household affairs went hither and thither about the house, from sitting room to kitchen,
and then with the feeding-bucket, out on the grass plat before the house, where a flock of
handsome fowl were pecking about. All was still quiet in the neighboring houses, but over by
the well stood the never-idle Judith, beating and turning her clothes as she washed them. Along
the road with uncertain steps came the old sexton, swinging the big church-keys in his hand;
he had been ringing the early morning peal. As he lifted his cap a little to salute Judith
at the well, she called out,

"Good day, neighbor, I was just thinking it would be a good exchange if the old folks were
to lie abed at this hour and let the young ones pull the bell rope."

"Well, some one must be doing it," said the other, and passed on his way.

Judith had been busy at her washing full two hours longer, when in the doorway of the sexton's
house appeared a young fellow, whose figure, almost as broad as it was long, filled the opening,
with scarce anything to spare. He tried to yawn, but there was not room enough to stretch his
arms, so he stepped outside for the purpose, and there he gaped so heartily that all the inside
of his big mouth and throat was distinctly visible.

"There's nothing in it, Blasi! I've had a good look at it," cried Judith. "If you had been
here two hours ago, you might have seen a sight. A girl with a whole mouthful of gold! What
do you say to that?"

Blasi caught at this, and brought his jaws together with a snap.

"What! full of gold?" he exclaimed, and opened his sleepy eyes to their utmost extent. "Why
doesn't the foolish thing carry it in her pocket? Where does she come from?"

"That's no concern of yours. You will never come up with her," replied Judith.

"Tell me, for all that," urged Blasi, coming toward Judith, "I can go after her, and I've no
doubt I shall come up with her, and then there's no telling what may happen. Come, where did
she go, now? Do you know her name?"

"Her name is Early Morn, Blasi," said Judith pleasantly. "Did you never hear the saying, 'There's
gold in the mouth of the early morn.'"

Blasi made a wry face and began in an angry tone,

"There's nothing very clever in that"--but just then he remembered that when he came out of
the house he had intended to come over and say something quite different to Judith; so he changed
his tone quickly, and said,

"Can you lend me a franc or two; I have just time to do a little business before eleven o'clock,
and then I must be back to ring the noon bell; I must try to help father, a little."

"No, no, Blasi, I have no francs for you," said Judith decidedly. "It wants three hours yet
of being eleven o'clock. Use those big arms of yours, and they'll bring you francs enough."
And so saying, she lifted her clothes-basket on her head, and walked away.

Blasi stood looking after her, a moment, then he sauntered off, with both hands in his pockets,
up the road towards, the shoemaker's old house. There sat Jost before the door, hammering away
at something as if for dear life. Blasi drew near, and stood watching the busy hands of his
friend, who presently cried out angrily,

