Here I should like to put in a plea for a much closer psychological study of the sayings of
the delirious, the insane, and of persons in the hour of death. Such words are not, as a rule,
recorded and are often passed over in fear or pity. This seems to me a great mistake. No harm
could be done, but, rather, a great deal of good, if nurses were taught to record such expressions.
This would result, I feel sure, in a greater kindness to delirious persons and to those who
are insane or on the verge of insanity, quite apart from the benefit which would accrue to
scientific investigation. If people understood something of the double or multiplex personality
there would be less terror and surprise at some of the phenomena of the emergence of the uncontrolled
subconsciousness. It might at first be thought that the doctor was the proper person to make
a record of the kind I am suggesting. But the doctor is, as a rule, too busy to do this sort
of work, and, what is more, it is not he who generally has the opportunity to note the real
expressions of the subconsciousness or to witness the struggle between the two personalities. At
first it was settled that she was to be married at two o'clock, in church, with four witnesses
present, and that from church she was to return quietly to her own house, where the party were
to eat a family dinner with her. A note, however, informed her friends that it was finally
decided, that the wedding should take place early in the morning,
at her own house, in the presence of some dozen friends.

The dinner was also postponed for a fortnight, as the happy couple intended to set out for
Boston, the morning they were united.

The weather was propitious; and after an early breakfast the party from Wyllys-Roof set out. It
included Mr. Ellsworth and Mrs. Creighton, who were connexions of
the bride, as well as Harry, and the family; Mary Van Alstyne remaining
at home with Jane. His eyes were grey and glittered brightly and keenly behind his gold-rimmed spectacles.
These he never removed, except for a moment of polishing on a large silk bandana handkerchief.
He smoked comparatively little, but was a perpetual snuff- taker. Nothing was more amusing
than to hear him discourse on snuff- taking and describe his adventures with snuff merchants.
In fact, snuff- taking in his mind had become endowed with a kind of freemasonry. All snuff-takers,
he declared, knew each other. They were so few in number. He was also very interesting about
snuff-boxes, and the lost art of making hinges through which the almost impalpable dust of
well-ground snuff would be unable to penetrate.

I might indeed have exampled his snuff-taking as a proof of his power of endowing everything
with a sense of adventure and pregnant interest.

His step was light and very quick, his voice pleasant and refined, and his manner of talking,
as may be imagined, what I must--in spite of the associations--call arresting. The saying that
if you had taken refuge under an arch during a rainstorm and found yourself next to Dr. Johnson
you would have realised in his first ten words that you were face to face with a man of true
distinction might well have been applied to Townsend himself.

But, after all, Townsend is not a man who can be described. You may describe a Mrs. Siddons
with a faultless profile, a great statesman or writer with what an old family servant of ours
called "an iron countenance"; but it is impossible to describe the intelligence, the nervous
energy, the versatility of expression which quick-coming, eager thoughts throw upon the human
face. Who can paint a thought, or number the flashes of wit? Townsend was to be appreciated,
not to be described. Moreover, he was a man who impressed you more the hundredth time you saw
him than on the first. It is the old mystery, the old paradox set forth by Wordsworth:

  You must love him ere to you
   He will seem worthy of your love.

It was only when you had learned to love his wit and the gallant cataract of his mind that
you could fully understand and value its fascination.

As a postscript to Townsend's oracular sayings I must add one of his dicta on women. Here his
generalisations were enormous and almost always included a wild nosedive from the empyrean
of generalities to that purely specific element, the hard earth. For example, he was never
tired of saying--in various forms, for he never really repeated himself--that women were far
more trustworthy in money matters than men. He used to say that he had never in any single
instance in his whole career been repaid a loan of money made to a man. On the other hand,
he had never been cheated by a woman.

It may perhaps be said that, considering I am writing a biography of myself and not of Townsend,
I have dwelt too long on my predecessor in title. But, in truth, I have hardly dwelt long enough,
for I am describing the making of my mind. I could hardly be too detailed or too particular
in my description of Townsend, for his influence upon my journalistic career was of enormous
importance. Though I very soon realised Townsend's defects as an editor, as a critic of public
affairs, as a man of letters, and as a user of words, my admiration for him as a great journalist
did not diminish but grew year by year.

I learned as time went on to disregard the faults and exaggerations which so often greatly
displeased the statesmen or men of letters who had not the time or the patience really to understand
and so to be tolerant. Townsend had to some extent done what is very rarely done in England,
though it is so much done in America; that is, he had thought out a good many of the problems
of publicity and arrived at very sound conclusions. If he had lived in America, I have no doubt
that, with the encouragement of a public that understands publicity, he would have carried
his ideas much further than he was able to carry them here, and would have been hailed as a
master in his art. As it was, he never wrote anything on the function of the newspaper editor,
and it was only in the shape of sparkles from the wheel that one saw the tendency of his mind
to do what the Americans have done. They have succeeded in isolating publicity and making it
a special art, so that it has now become with them a special art with special conditions of
its own.

Townsend, as far as I remember, never talked about the ethics of journalism or the duties of
the journalist. It must not be supposed for a moment that this was because he did not realise
or respect those duties, or was indifferent. It was rather due to the fact that he had a kind
of innocence, a sancta simplicitas, on this as, indeed, on many moral and social questions.
He took sound and honourable behaviour as a matter of course, and he would no more have thought
of praising other people or himself for having a strict sense of honour in their conduct of
a newspaper than he would of praising them or himself for not committing petty larceny, perjury,
or fraud. He took, indeed, a very hopeful view of mankind and did not the least believe they
were really bad, even if they did show themselves to be tigers on occasion. For instance, I
remember his saying to me once, with that naive gaiety which was peculiar to him, that though
he and Hutton differed a great deal in matters of theology they never had any differences as
to the line the paper should take. Though Hutton inclined to an extremely "high" section of
the Church, to what, indeed, might be described as a kind of sublimated sacerdotalism, and
Townsend to a Broad Church Presbyterianism, buttressed by an intense opposition to every form
of priestly function, he went on to point out that everything was made easy "because both Hutton
and I are at heart on the side of the angels."

Apropos of angels, I remember with intense delight one of Townsend's most characteristic sayings.
In the course of a conversation which began on some mundane theme and drifted on to spiritual
lines, I remember his suddenly throwing the noble horse of dialectic on to his haunches with
the catastrophic remark: "Strachey, remember this. If there are angels, they have edges." Here
was the whole man. The idler or the fool will think, or pretend to think, that this was simply
ridiculous nonsense, and will pass on with the comment, "We are not amused." As a matter of
fact, there was a great deal of good sense packed under a kind of semi- humorous hydraulic
pressure in this amazing dictum. What he meant was that if there were angels, they were not
vague, fluid, evanescent creatures, some times part of a general angelic reservoir and sometimes
in single samples, but definite personalities. His was only a fierce and violent way of saying
what Tennyson said so exquisitely in the immortal lines:

  Eternal form shall still divide
   The eternal soul from all beside,
     And I shall know him when we meet.

There can be no eternal form without an edge. The edge, the dividing- line, is the essential
thing in individuals, and Townsend's mind had pounced upon this as a cat will fall like a thunderbolt
upon a mouse. It was in this vivid, practical way that his mind worked. He jumped all the intermediate
things and came out with the essential in his mouth. But those who had slow or atrophied minds
and did not see the process often failed to recognise what he was after, or what a clever kill
he had made.

CHAPTER XVIII

MY LIFE IN LONDON IN THE 'NINETIES

I have described how I came to London, how I became established at The Spectator Office, and
what, before I succeeded to the Editorship of The Spectator, were my various extra activities
in journalism and literature. I must now say something of my personal life. In 1887 I married.
The year or so spent in my father-in-law's house, 14 Cornwall Gardens, where my first child
was born, was very happy and delightful. As my people lived either in Somersetshire or on the
Riviera, I knew "on my own" comparatively few people in London, though those I did know were
for the most part people to whom special interest was attached.

It happened that my mother-in-law, Mrs. Simpson, was not only a very charming person in herself,
but, partly owing to a natural gift for, and love of, Society, and partly owing to the fact
that her father, Mr. Nassau-Senior, the conversationalist, had been one of the best-known men
in the political-literary world of London and of Paris, from 1820 to 1860, she knew a very
large number of distinguished men and women of the middle Victorian epoch. By this I mean such
men as Thackeray, Matthew Arnold, Robert Browning, Leslie Stephen, Mr. Justice Stephen, Sir
Mountstuart Grant-Duff, Sir Louis Mallet, Mr. Lecky, Lord Arthur Russell and his brothers--to
choose a few names almost at random. The last- named, Lord Arthur Russell, was the most kindly
and friendly of men. Probably without being conscious of it themselves, he and his distinguished
wife formed what a pedantic social analyst might call the centre of a social group.

I shall, for this reason, choose the Arthur Russells for description in detail. They were very
old friends of the Nassau-Seniors and so of Mrs. Simpson, and friends with a double liaison.
Mr. Nassau-Senior and his family had been throughout his life on very friendly terms with Lady
William Russell, one of the most remarkable women of Regency and Victorian London as regards
her beauty, her intellectual ability, and her social qualities. When Byron wrote the graceful
and lively stanza which so audaciously recommends the gilded youth, who want to know whether
their partners' complexions are real or synthetic, to wait till the light of dawn comes through
the ballroom windows and then note what it discloses, he breaks off to say that, at any rate,
there is one lady who will always stand the test, and adds:

  At the next London or Parisian ball
   You're sure to see her cheek outblooming all.

That lady was Lady William Russell--sister, by the way, of the unhappy Lady Flora Hastings
so cruelly caught in the meshes of an angry Court intrigue based on the natural, nay, inevitable,
ignorance and want of worldly knowledge of a girl-Queen, the stupidity and lack of worldly
wisdom of the Court Physicians, and the blundering bitterness of a group of Great Ladies--the
whole assisted and inflamed by the baser type of party-politician.

Lady William Russell had three sons, each destined to play, if not great, yet important parts
in the world. The eldest became the Duke of Bedford. Though he lived in many ways a sequestered,
almost hermit-like, life, he was a man of singular ability. Of him Jowett was wont to record
a curious piece of private history. The Duke had said to him, that in the course of his life
he had lived upon all incomes from £300 to £300,000 a year and in each category had been happy
and contented. Perhaps the best way to describe Hastings, Duke of Bedford, is to say that he
was a typical Russell, though a man with a Melbourne-like mind would perhaps add that his untypicalness
was the most typical thing about him. The next brother was Lord Odo Russell, who played a very
distinguished, brilliant, and useful part in the diplomacy of the period marked by the rise
first of Prussian and then of German power. His son is the present Lord Ampthill. The third
son was Lord Arthur Russell. All three boys were brought up in what might be called a nursery
or schoolroom friendship with the children of the Nassau-Senior family. My mother-in-law remained
in touch with all three Russells throughout her life; but her special friend, partly because
he always lived in England, and partly because he married a friend of the Seniors, was Lord Arthur.

Among Mr. Nassau-Senior's Parisian friends was the brilliant and distinguished Mme. de Peyronnet,
an Englishwoman by birth, married to a man of distinguished French family, who occupied an
official post in the post-Restoration Administration. Mme. de Peyronnet formed part of the
memorable group of Liberals of which Tocqueville was one of the most distinguished members;--a
group which from the latter part of Louis- Philippe's reign to the break-up of the Third Empire
comprised as notable a body of intellectuals as were ever brought together even in the city
of Paris--the natural home of Social intellectualism. This, too, was the group of which M.
and Mme. Mohl were shining ornaments. "Well, we are very much obliged to you for getting tired
of Rio," said Mrs. Creighton; "and thinking that the gay world of Philadelphia was quite as agreeable
as the Imperial Court."

"I take it for granted, however, that it was not exactly the gay world that you regretted," said
Ellsworth.

"Not exactly, no; general society is not sufficiently perfect in its way among us, for a man to
pine after."

"I have often thought," observed Elinor, "that the spirit of mere dissipation must be less
excusable in this country than in Europe. Society must have so many attractions there--more
general finish--more high accomplishment."

"Yes; we want more of the real thing; we have smatterers enough as it is," replied Mr. Ellsworth.

"And
then the decorations are so well got up in Europe!" exclaimed Mrs. Creighton. "I must confess
myself enough of a woman, to be charmed with good decorations."

"Something far better than mere decoration; however, is requisite to make society at all agreeable,"
continued Mr. Ellsworth. "There is luxury enough among us, in eating and drinking, dressing
and furniture, for instance; and yet what can well be more silly, more puerile, than the general
tone of conversation at common parties among us? And how many of the most delightful soirees
in Paris, are collected in plain rooms, au second, or au troisieme,
with a brick floor to stand on, and a glass of orgeat, with a bit
of brioche to eat!"

{"au second, or au troisieme" = on the third or fourth floor; "orgeat" = a syrup flavored drink;
"brioche" = a simple pastry (French)}

"Lots and Love--Speculation and Flirtation, are too entirely the order
of the day, and of the evening, with us," said Harry; "whether figuring
on Change, or on a Brussels carpet."

{"on Change" = at the stock
market}

"I have often been struck, myself, with the excessive silliness
of the conversation at common parties, especially what are called
young parties; though I have never seen anything better," said Elinor.

"Those
young parties are enough to spoil any society," said Harry.

"Perhaps,
however, you have too high an idea of such scenes in Europe, precisely
because you have not seen them, Miss Wyllys," observed Mr. Ellsworth.

"That
may very possibly be the case."

"There are always silly and ignorant
people to be met with everywhere," remarked Harry; "but the difference
lies in the general character of the circle, which is not often so
insipid and so puerile in Europe."

I had been accustomed as a boy to hear the best type of what I may call old-fashioned after-dinner
English conversation, from the mouth of a master, Abraham Hayward. Hayward was an excellent
example of the special type of raconteur who first became famous in the Regency period. These
men, who were chiefly anecdotal in their talk, are well described by Byron in the immortal
account of the House-party, Don Juan-- "Long-bow from Scotland, Strong-bow from the Tweed."
Hayward was a man of real ability, though in a narrow sphere, and with a remarkable power of
style. With him talk meant telling stories of Byron, Melbourne, Castlereagh, Cobden, Bright,
Peel, and later Gladstone, Palmerston, and Lord John and other eminent Victorians. He told
these with great intensive force and was vivacious as well as concise. All the same, the talk
was anecdotal, and that can never be as stimulating as when it is spontaneous. It was the difference
between fresh meat and tinned meat-- the difference between a vintage claret on the day it
is uncorked and the day after.

Do not let it be supposed that by this comparison I am suggesting that the talk of Mme. de
Peyronnet and her daughters was naturalistic and so artless. It was nothing of the kind. Though
original and spontaneous, it was the result, consciously or unconsciously, of a distinct artistic
intention. When they talked, they talked their best, as does the writer of good familiar letters.
Lady Arthur Russell was the most pungent talker of the three, Lady Sligo the most reminiscent
and, in the proper, not the derived sense, the most woman-of-the-worldly. I mean by this that
she dealt most with the figures of the great world, but by no means in a grandiloquent, consequential,
or Beaconsfieldian sense. She had travelled a great deal and seen an enormous number of people
in every country of Europe as well as in England, and, therefore, she was and is more cosmopolitan
in her talk than were her sisters.

Mlle. de Peyronnet was the most epigrammatic. She had the happy gift of improvising in a lightning-flash
epigrams and jeux de mots which would not have discredited the best wits even of France. I
think her repartee, or rather jeu de mot, at the dentist's, which went the round of London,
the best example I can take by way of illustration. Most people are dreary and depressed in
a dentist's chair. Not so Mlle. de Peyronnet. Even here she kept not only her good-temper,
but also her brilliant imagination and, above all, her verbal felicity.

The scene passes in a Dental Atelier in Paris. Mlle. de Peyronnet must be imagined seated in
the fateful chair, dreading the pain but hoping for the relief of an extraction. But, as Tacitus
said, that morning she saw all things cross and terrible. The dentist, instead of doing his
work deftly, bungled it, or else it was the fault of the patient's jaw. At any rate, the tooth
broke off in the forceps, and the dentist had to confess to his patient that all the pain he
had given her was useless. He had left in the root! "Ah, mademoiselle," he exclaimed, "quelle
Tragédie!" But the patient, though suffering acute agony, was worthy of the occasion. She did
not pause for an instant in her comment--"Une Tragédie de Racine!"

There have been, no doubt, greater and deeper witticisms than that, but could anything have
been happier, neater, more good-tempered, more exactly appropriate?

I sometimes feel I would rather have said that than have written Racine's Mithridates.

I have summarised the characteristics of each of the sisters' talk. Of Mme. de Peyronnet, who
in many ways was more brilliant than her daughters, I will say only that she combined their
several qualities. When I add that her talk, like that of her daughters, was original, it must
not be supposed that she had not a proper appreciation of great events or of great people.
Her memories naturally stretched a great deal further than those of her daughters. I remember
well asking her whether she had seen any of the human remanets of the Revolution, some of whom,
at any rate, must have been alive during her early married life in Paris. She told me that,
though there were no reprisals after the Restoration, it was curious how few of the Terrorists
were visible in the Paris of her youth. Some, of course, had gone to earth under aliases, but
most of them were dead. The Terror which the Terrorists felt as much as inspired, the excitement,
and probably also the debauchery of the time when everyone felt, "Let us eat and drink, for
tomorrow we die," did not create an atmosphere in which people cultivated hygienic habits or
studied rules of "how to live till eighty."

And then, I remember well, she corrected her denial. "Yes, but I did see one of the Terrorists,"
and then she told me how she actually saw in the flesh the man who was perhaps the worst of
them all, the implacable, irresistible Fouché, the man who had been an incendiary, an extremist,
and yet who was never in reality a fanatic or a profligate. Fouché always dressed in black,
and in a fashion which seems to have resembled Cruikshank's caricatures of the Chadbands of
the Regency period. He was a loyal, hard-working servant of any Government which employed him.
If the policy of those he was working with was killing, he would kill in battalions, as indeed
he did at Lyons. Yet all the time he felt no touch of the blood-lust which inspired men like
Carrier. He would never have thought of killing for the sake of killing, or of committing acts
of unnecessary cruelty. He was, indeed, a man of spotless private character. He was guilty
of no excess except the awful excess of knowing no difference between right and wrong.

"What," I asked Mme. de Peyronnet," did he look like, and how did you come to see him?" Here
is her reply.

When quite a young woman I was in the theatre one night and suddenly saw a great deal of commotion.
People were standing up and looking about them and talking eagerly. This commotion, I soon
saw, was caused by a very old man with white hair who was making his way through the crowd
to his stall. As he moved, there ran through the house the excited whisper, "Cest le Duc d'Otranto."

That was the melodramatic title which Napoleon had conferred upon the man he could not trust,
but dare not openly distrust or dismiss, any more than could Louis XVIII. Even in the calmest
and most peaceful times the Duke of Otranto remained menacing and terrible. The background
which I see when I think of Fouché is not the Convention or the Committee of Public Safety.
I see him as he is described to us by the youth who went to Lyons, to plead with him for the
right to cross into Switzerland. He found Fouché busy. He was doing his best to execute the
command of the Convention to lay Lyons low, and to kill the greater part of her principal inhabitants.
Fouché, always loyal and always punctiliously exact in his work, saw what a difficult job was
the killing of seven or eight hundred men at once unless by a well thought-out plan. The mere
collecting and dragging away the corpses for burial would be an immense task. The plan he ultimately
devised was admirably simple. He first made the prisoners dig a long, wide, and deep trench--I
understand that the Bolsheviks use the same method. He then lined them up at the very edge
of the ditch. When the firing-party got to work their victims fell neatly backwards into their
long grave. All that was needed was to shovel in the earth, which had been piled on the opposite
side of the trench.

The young man of whose account I am thinking uses language in describing Fouché superintending
the preparation of the trench which reads like a paraphrase of Tacitus' account of Tiberius
at the trial of Piso and Placentia. "Nothing so much daunted Piso as to behold Tiberius, without
mercy, without wrath, close, dark, unmovable, and bent against every access of tenderness."
So stood Fouché.

When Mme. de Peyronnet saw him, the Terrorist had been entirely replaced by the "civilised
Statesman." What passed before her eyes was a very old, white-haired man, with a regard deep
and impenetrable. She added, however, "I remember noting that everyone seemed to treat him
with the greatest awe." By that time, strange to say, he was one of the richest and most respected
men in France. Further, he had by his second marriage entered one of the greatest families
of the ancien régime, and had actually been accepted as "one of us" by the inner hierarchy
of the French noblesse! He had even made his peace with the Church and become, at any rate
in all outward forms, perhaps ex animo, a devout Catholic. "Here it is--short you see--in Clapp's
hand-writing, but signed by himself. There is nothing in it that may not possibly be true;
but I fancy that we shall be able to pick some holes in it, by-and-bye."

"Did he make no difficulty about sending it to you?" asked Miss Agnes.
"No, he seemed to give it readily; Mr. Reed sent it to us a day or
two since."

Miss Wyllys received the letter from her father, inviting
Elinor to read it over her shoulder, at the same moment. Would that the author of the Annals re- incarnated could have
given us pictures not only of Fouché but of Robespierre, Marat, Saint-Just, Camille Desmoulins,
Fouquier Tinville, and the rest!

Nothing was more fascinating than to hear Mme. de Peyronnet talk of the street-fighting in
'48 and of how life went on, I had almost said, as usual, in the intervals of the fusillades.
She told me, I remember, that when you were walking in a side-street and heard firing in the
boulevard or main street at the end of it, it was almost impossible not to creep up what you
thought or hoped was the safest side, and put your head round the corner and see what was happening.
Who is getting the best of it in a fight is a question that will not be denied, though it may
easily mean a stray bullet in your head.

