He first asked for Miss Mackenzie, and was told that she was not staying there. Was he thereupon
to leave his card and go away? He had told himself that in this pursuit of the heiress he would
probably be called upon to dare much, and if he did not begin to show some daring at once,
how could he respect himself, or trust to himself for future daring? So he boldly asked for
Mrs Mackenzie, and was at once shown into the parlour. There sat the widow, in her full lugubrious
weeds, there sat Miss Colza, and there sat Mary Jane, and they were all busy hemming, darning,
and clipping; turning old sheets into new ones; for now it was more than ever necessary that
Mrs Mackenzie should make money at once by taking in lodgers. When Mr Maguire was shown into
the room each lady rose from her chair, with her sheet in her hands and in her lap, and then,
as he stood before them, at the other side of the table, each lady again sat down.

"A gentleman as is asking for Miss Margaret," the servant had said; that same cook to whom
Mr Grandairs had been so severe on the occasion of Mrs Mackenzie's dinner party. The other
girl had been unnecessary to them in their poverty, and had left them.

"My name is Maguire, the Rev. Mr Maguire, from Littlebath, where I had the pleasure of knowing
Miss Mackenzie."

Then the widow asked him to take a chair, and he took a chair.

"My sister-in-law is not with us at present," said Mrs Mackenzie.

"She is staying for a visit with her aunt, Lady Ball, at the Cedars, Twickenham," said Mary
Jane, who had contrived to drop her sheet, and hustle it under the table with her feet, as
soon as she learned that the visitor was a clergyman.

"Lady Ball is the lady of Sir John Ball, Baronet," said Miss Colza, whose good nature made
her desirous of standing up for the honour of the family with which she was, for the time,
domesticated.

"I knew she had been at Lady Ball's," said the clergyman, "as I heard from her from thence;
but I thought she had probably returned."

"Oh dear, no," said the widow, "she ain't returned here, nor don't mean. We haven't the room
for her, and that's the truth. Have we, Mary Jane?"

"That we have not, mamma; and I don't think aunt Margaret would think of such a thing."

Then, thought Mr Maguire, the Balls must have got hold of the heiress, and not the Mackenzies,
and my battle must be fought at the Cedars, and not here. Still, as he was there, he thought
possibly he might obtain some further information; and this would be the easier, if, as appeared
to be the case, there was enmity between the Gower Street family and their relative.

"Has Miss Mackenzie gone to live permanently at the Cedars?" he asked.

"Not that I know of," said the widow.

"It isn't at all unlikely, mamma, that it may be so, when you consider everything. It's just
the sort of way in which they'll most likely get over her."

"Mary Jane, hold your tongue," said her mother; "you shouldn't say things of that sort before
strangers."

"Though I may not have the pleasure of knowing you and your amiable family," said Mr Maguire,
smiling his sweetest, "I am by no means a stranger to Miss Mackenzie."

Then the ladies all looked at him, and thought they had never seen anything so terrible as
that squint.

"Miss Mackenzie is making a long visit at the Cedars," said Miss Colza, "that is all we know
at present. I am told the Balls are very nice people, but perhaps a little worldly-minded;
that's to be expected, however, from people who live out of the west-end from London. I live
in Finsbury Square, or at least, I did before I came here, and I ain't a bit ashamed to own
it. But of course the west-end is the nicest."

Then Mr Maguire got up, saying that he should probably do himself the pleasure of calling on
Miss Mackenzie at the Cedars, and went his way.

"I wonder what he's after," said Mrs Mackenzie, as soon as the door was shut.

"Perhaps he came to tell her to bear it all with Christian resignation," said Miss Colza; "they
always do come when anything's in the wind like that; they like to know everything before anybody
else."

"It's my belief he's after her money," said Mrs Mackenzie.

"With such a squint as that!" said Mary Jane; "I wouldn't have him though he was made of money,
and I hadn't a farthing."

"Beauty is but skin deep," said Miss Colza.

"And it's manners to wait till you are asked," said Mrs Mackenzie.

Mary Jane chucked up her head with disdain, thereby indicating that though she had not been
asked, and though beauty is but skin deep, still she held the same opinion.

Mr Maguire, as he went away to a clerical advertising office in the neighbourhood of Exeter
Hall, thought over the matter profoundly. It was clear enough to him that the Mackenzies of
Gower Street were not interfering with him; very probably they might have hoped and attempted
to keep the heiress among them; that assertion that there was no room for her in the house--as
though they were and ever had been averse to having her with them--seemed to imply that such
was the case. It was the natural language of a disappointed woman. But if so, that hope was
now over with them. And then the young lady had plainly exposed the suspicions which they all
entertained as to the Balls. These grand people at the Cedars, this baronet's family at Twickenham,
must have got her to come among them with the intention of keeping her there. It did not occur
to him that the baronet or the baronet's son would actually want Miss Mackenzie's money. He
presumed baronets to be rich people; but still they might very probably be as dogs in the manger,
and desirous of preventing their relative from doing with her money that active service to
humanity in general which would be done were she to marry a deserving clergyman who had nothing
of his own.

He made his visit to the advertising office, and learned that clergymen without cures were
at present drugs in the market. He couldn't understand how this should be the case, seeing
that the newspapers were constantly declaring that the supply of university clergymen were
becoming less and less every day. He had come from Trinity, Dublin and after the success of
his career at Littlebath, was astonished that he should not be snapped at by the retailers
of curacies.

On the next day he visited Twickenham. Now, on the morning of that very day Margaret Mackenzie
first woke to the consciousness that she was the promised wife of her cousin John Ball. There
was great comfort in the thought.

It was not only, nor even chiefly, that she who, on the preceding morning, had awakened to
the remembrance of her utter destitution, now felt that all those terrible troubles were over.
It was not simply that her great care had been vanquished for her. It was this, that the man
who had a second time come to her asking for her love, had now given her all-sufficient evidence
that he did so for the sake of her love. He, who was so anxious for money, had shown her that
he could care for her more even than he cared for gold. As she thought of this, and made herself
happy in the thought, she would not rise at once from her bed, but curled herself in the clothes
and hugged herself in her joy.

"I should have taken him before, at once, instantly, if I could have thought that it was so,"
she said to herself; "but this is a thousand times better."

Then she found that the pillow beneath her cheek was wet with her tears.

On the preceding evening she had been very silent and demure, and her betrothed had also been
silent. There had been no words about the tea-making, and Lady Ball had been silent also. As
far as she knew, Margaret was to go on the following day, but she would say nothing on the
subject. Margaret, indeed, had commenced her packing, and did not know when she went to bed
whether she was to go or not. She rather hoped that she might be allowed to go, as her aunt
would doubtless be disagreeable; but in that, and in all matters now, she would of course be
guided implicitly by Mr Ball. He had told her to be firm, and of her own firmness she had no
doubt whatever. Lady Ball, with all her anger, or with all her eloquence, should not talk her
out of her husband. She could be firm, and she had no doubt that John Ball could be firm also.

Nevertheless, when she was dressing, she did not fail to tell herself that she might have a
bad time of it that morning,--and a bad time of it for some days to come, if it was John's
intention that she should remain at the Cedars. She was convinced that Lady Ball would not
welcome her as a daughter-in-law now as she would have done when the property was thought to
belong to her. What right had she to expect such welcome? No doubt some hard things would be
said to her; but she knew her own courage, and was sure that she could bear any hard things
with such a hope within her breast as that which she now possessed. She left her room a little
earlier than usual, thinking that she might thus meet her cousin and receive his orders. And
in this she was not disappointed; he was in the hall as she came down, and she was able to
smile on him, and press his hand, and make her morning greetings to him with some tenderness
in her voice. He looked heavy about the face, and almost more careworn than usual, but he took
her hand and led her into the breakfast-room.

"Did you tell your mother, John?" she said, standing very close to him, almost leaning upon
his shoulder.

He, however, did not probably want such signs of love as this, and moved a step away from her.

"Yes," said he, "I told both my father and my mother. What she says to you, you must hear,
and bear it quietly for my sake."

"I will," said Margaret.

"I think that she is unreasonable, but still she is my mother."

"I shall always remember that, John."

"And she is old, and things have not always gone well with her. She says, too, that you have
been impertinent to her."

Margaret's face became very red at this charge, but she made no immediate reply.

"I don't think you could mean to be impertinent."

"Certainly not, John; but, of course, I shall feel myself much more bound to her now than I
was before."

"Yes, of course; but I wish that nothing had occurred to make her so angry with you."

"I don't think that I was impertinent, John, though perhaps it might seem so. When she was
talking about my being a companion to a lady, I perhaps answered her sharply. I was so determined
that I wouldn't lead that sort of life, that, perhaps I said more than I should have done.
You know, John, that it hasn't been quite pleasant between us for the last few days."

John did know this, and he knew also that there was not much probability of pleasantness for
some days to come. His mother's last words to him on the preceding evening, as he was leaving
her after having told his story, did not give much promise of pleasantness for Margaret. "John,"
she had said, "nothing on earth shall induce me to live in the same house with Margaret Mackenzie
as your wife. If you choose to break up everything for her sake, you can do it. I cannot control
you. But remember, it will be your doing."

Margaret then asked him what she was to do, and where she was to live. She would fain have
asked him when they were to be married, but she did not dare to make inquiry on that point.
He told her that, for the present, she must remain at the Cedars. If she went away it would
be regarded as an open quarrel, and moreover, he did not wish that she should live by herself
in London lodgings. "We shall be able to see how things go for a day or two," he said. To this
she submitted without a murmur, and then Lady Ball came into the room.

They were both very nervous in watching her first behaviour, but were not at all prepared for
the line of conduct which she adopted. John Ball and Margaret had separated when they heard
the rustle of her dress. He had made a step towards the window, and she had retreated to the
other side of the fire-place. Lady Ball, on entering the room, had been nearest to Margaret,
but she walked round the table away from her usual place for prayers, and accosted her son.

"Good-morning, John," she said, giving him her hand.

Margaret waited a second or two, and then addressed her aunt.

"Good-morning, aunt," she said, stepping half across the rug.

But her aunt, turning her back to her, moved into the embrasure of the window. It had been
decided that there was to be an absolute cut between them! As long as she remained in that
house Lady Ball would not speak to her. John said nothing, but a black frown came upon his
brow. Poor Margaret retired, rebuked, to her corner by the chimney. Just at that moment the
girls and children rushed in from the study, with the daily governess who came every morning,
and Sir John rang for the servants to come to prayers.

I wonder whether that old lady's heart was at all softened as she prayed? whether it ever occurred
to her to think that there was any meaning in that form of words she used, when she asked her
God to forgive her as she might forgive others? What distinction does the university have?

15. Which are the two oldest American universities?

16.

How and why was the university of Córdoba founded?

17. Where is Córdoba located?

18. How is the weather?

19. What historical periods can you divide the university into? 20.

What faculty are included at the University of Tucumán? CHAPTER
XVII THE GEOGRAPHY, HISTORY AND EDUCATION OF PARAGUAY.

Paraguay is one of two South American landlocked republics, and it
has approximately 800,000 inhabitants.

It is blessed with a mild and healthy subtropical climate, thanks
to the various mountain ranges and many rivers.

Therefore, the majority of the cereals and fruits are cultivated
in the tropical and temperate zones of the republic.

The vast plain of the Gran Chaco River contains excellent land for the raising of livestock, and the mountain
slopes are covered with dense woods which contain precious lumber and medicinal plants. The country
is situated between the Paraguay River and the Paraná River, where the waters unite in the extreme
southern end of the republic near Curupaiti, and which, together with Uruguay forms the broad
estuary of the Rio de la Plata, one of the most notable bodies of
river water in the world.

The
only major rail system that functions today in Paraguay, is the Asunción on the border with
Argentina. Therefore, Paraguay relies almost entirely on its waterways
as points of communication and transportation, of which they are effective
and convenient to ship products.

The principal shipping ports on the Paraguay River are Asunción, the capital of the republic,
Concepción and Humaitá. The most important city of the Paraná River is Encarnación. Various
steamship companies have regular service on the Paraguay River. This dates back to the time when the
steamships went upstream, only to carry or receive cargo, so, they
did not have passenger service.

The railway system mentioned earlier, offered regular train service between Buenos Aires and Asunción,
which makes the trip in two days without transfer. To travel to the interior, away from the rivers
and railroads, there are roads that can be traveled by walking with others or by horse. Paraguay possesses
many lakes that are frequented by those looking for fun during the
holidays and for those who desire to recuperate their health.

One of these, is Lake Ipacarai, which is located in the picturesque village of San Bernardino,
two hours by train and steamship from Asunción. The best hotels
and most beautiful villas in Paraguay are foundin San Bernardino.

The region that we know today as the Republic of Paraguay was discovered by the famous explorer, Sebastián
Cabot. Following Cabot was explorer Juan de Ayolas and Domingo Irala,
who en 1536 founded a colony on the site which is now the city of Asunción.
Later, Álvaro Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, famous for the explorations
he made in North America, was appointed governor of the province
of Paraguay, which at the time included the region bathed by the Rio
de la Plata.

This covered an territory of about 1,000
miles, which was uncharted and almost completely unknown at the time.
In 1591, Don Fernando Arias de Saavedra was appointed governor. By
invitation, the Jesuit missionaries were sent to Paraguay in 1608.

 Lady Ball,
Mr Maguire thought, would suit him better than Sir John. He signified his will accordingly,
and on being shown into the drawing-room, found her ladyship there alone.

It must be acknowledged that he was a brave man, and that he was doing a bold thing. He knew
that he should find himself among enemies, and that his claim would be ignored and ridiculed
by the persons whom he was about to attack; he knew that everybody, on first seeing him, was
affrighted and somewhat horrified; he knew too,--at least, we must presume that he knew,--that
the lady herself had given him no promise. But he thought it possible, nay, almost probable,
that she would turn to him if she saw him again; that she might own him as her own; that her
feelings might be strong enough in his favour to induce her to throw off the thraldom of her
relatives, and that he might make good his ground in her breast, even if he could not bear
her away in triumph out of the hands of his enemies.

When he entered the room Lady Ball looked at him and shuddered. People always did shudder when
they saw him for the first time.

"Lady Ball," said he, "I am the Rev. Mr Maguire, of Littlebath."

She was holding his card in her hand, and having notified to him that she was aware of the
fact he had mentioned, asked him to sit down.

"I have called," said he, taking his seat, "hoping to be allowed to speak to you on a subject
of extreme delicacy."

"Indeed," said Lady Ball, thinking to catch his eye, and failing in the effort.

"I may say of very extreme delicacy. I believe your niece, Miss Margaret Mackenzie, is staying
here?" In answer to this, Lady Ball acknowledged that Miss Mackenzie was now at the Cedars.

"Have you any objection, Lady Ball, to allowing me to see her in your presence?"

Lady Ball was a quick-thinking, intelligent, and, at the same time, prudent old lady, and she
gave no answer to this before she had considered the import of the question. Why should this
clergyman want to see Margaret? And would his seeing her conduce most to her own success, or
to Margaret's? Then there was the fact that Margaret was of an age which entitled her to the
right of seeing any visitor who might call on her. Thinking over all this as best she could
in the few moments at her command, and thinking also of this clergyman's stipulation that she
was to be present at the interview, she said that she had no objection whatever. She would
send for Miss Mackenzie.

She rose to ring the bell, but Mr Maguire, also rising from his chair, stopped her hand.

"Pardon me for a moment," said he. "Before you call Margaret to come down I would wish to explain
to you for what purpose I have come here."

Lady Ball, when she heard the man call her niece by her Christian name, listened with all her
ears. Under no circumstances but one could such a man call such a woman by her Christian name
in such company.

"Lady Ball," he said, "I do not know whether you may be aware of it or no, but I am engaged
to marry your niece."

Lady Ball, who had not yet resumed her seat, now did so.

"I had not heard of it," she said.

"It may be so," said Mr Maguire.

"It is so," said Lady Ball.

"Very probably. There are many reasons which operate upon young ladies in such a condition
to keep their secret even from their nearest relatives. For myself, being a clergyman of the
Church of England, professing evangelical doctrines, and therefore, as I had need not say,
averse to everything that may have about it even a seeming of impropriety, I think it best
to declare the fact to you, even though in doing so I may perhaps give some offence to dear
Margaret."

It must, I think, be acknowledged that Mr Maguire was true to himself, and that he was conducting
his case at any rate with courage. They inhabit the higher regions of the Andes, and
there are very useful, since they depend on the wealth and welfare of the Indians. Used in
the transport of all kinds of items, and make many long trips by between the winding branches
of the mountain range to the other beasts, would be impassable but they walk rather slowly, making only
twelve days to fifteen miles per day. They take advantage meat, milk, wool and leather, wool
long enough to be his chest and legs.

The manufacture of hats of the so-called "Panama" is being carried
out successfully, exported large quantities of them.

YEAR ENDED

In this chapter the student should write at least ten
questions and their corresponding answers. She had
refused him, and taken up with this horrid, greasy, evil-eyed parson when she was rich; and
then, when she was poor,--even before she had got rid of her other engagement, she had come
back upon him, and, playing upon his pity, had secured him in her toils. Lady Ball felt well
inclined to thank the clergyman for coming to her relief at such a moment.

"It will be best that I should ask my niece to come down to you," said she, getting up and
walking out of the room.

But she did not go up to her niece. She first went to Sir John and quieted his impatience with
reference to the driving, and then, after a few minutes' further delay for consideration, she
sent the servant up to her niece. Having done this she returned to the drawing-room, and found
Mr Maguire looking at the photographs on the table.

"It is very like dear Margaret, very like her, indeed," said he, looking at one of Miss Mackenzie.
"The sweetest face that ever my eyes rested on! May I ask you if you have just seen your niece,
Lady Ball?"

"No, sir, I have not seen her; but I have sent for her."

There was still some little delay before Margaret came down. She was much fluttered, and wanted
time to think, if only time could be allowed to her. Perhaps there had come a man to say that
her money was not gone. If so, with what delight would she give it all to her cousin John!
That was her first thought. But if so, how then about the promise made to her dying brother?
She almost wished that the money might not be hers. Looking to herself only, and to her own
happiness, it would certainly be better for her that it should not be hers. And if it should
be Mr Rubb with the yellow gloves! But before she could consider that alternative she had opened
the door, and there was Mr Maguire standing ready to receive her.

"Dearest Margaret!" he exclaimed. "My own love!" And there he stood, with his arms open, as
though he expected Miss Mackenzie to rush into them. He was certainly a man of very great courage.

"Mr Maguire!" said she, and she stood still near the door. Then she looked at her aunt, and
saw that Lady Ball's eyes were keenly fixed upon her. Something like the truth, some approximation
to the facts as they were, flashed upon her in a moment, and she knew that she had to bear
herself in this difficulty with all her discretion and all her fortitude.

"Margaret," exclaimed Mr Maguire, "will you not come to me?"

"What do you mean, Mr Maguire?" said she, still standing aloof from him, and retreating somewhat
nearer to the door.

"The gentleman says that you are engaged to marry him," said Lady Ball.

Margaret, looking again into her aunt's face, saw the smile of triumph that sat there, and
resolved at once to make good her ground.

"If he has said that, he has told an untruth,--an untruth both unmanly and unmannerly. You
hear, sir, what Lady Ball has stated. Is it true that you have made such an assertion?"

"And will you contradict it, Margaret? Oh, Margaret! Margaret! you cannot contradict it."

The reader must remember that this clergyman no doubt thought and felt that he had a good deal
of truth on his side. Gentlemen when they make offers to ladies, and are told by ladies that
they may come again, and that time is required for consideration, are always disposed to think
that the difficulties of the siege are over. 

CHAPTER XXV BRAZIL PRODUCTS: COFFEE AND RUBBER 

Agriculture ranks
first in Brazil, as well as other closely related industries, contributing
largely to the countries wealth.

This country possesses large tropical regions, and a subtropical
inland plateau, combined with temperate weather and fertile tracts
in the south, it's no wonder the republic has always had products
of the soil, and utilized forests as a vast source of wealth.

 This that was going on was a robbery
of the Church, a spoiling of Israel, a touching with profane hands of things that had already
been made sacred.

"But I do contradict it," said Margaret, stepping forward into the room, and almost exciting
admiration in Lady Ball's breast by her demeanour. "Aunt," said she, "as this gentleman has
chosen to come here with such a story as this, I must tell you all the facts."

"Has he ever been engaged to you?" asked Lady Ball.

"Never."

"Oh, Margaret!" again exclaimed Mr Maguire.

"Sir, I will ask you to let me tell my aunt the truth. When I was at Littlebath, before I knew
that my fortune was not my own,"--as she said this she looked hard into Mr Maguire's face--"before
I had become penniless, as I am now,"--then she paused again, and still looking at him, saw
with inward pleasure the elongation of her suitor's face, "this gentleman asked me to marry him."

"He did ask you?" said Lady Ball.

"Of course I asked her," urged Mr Maguire. "There can be no denying that on either side."

He did not now quite know what to do. He certainly did not wish to impoverish the Church by
marrying Miss Mackenzie without any fortune. But might it not all be a trick? That she had
been rich he knew, and how could she have become poor so quickly?

"He did ask me, and I told him that I must take a fortnight to consider of it."

"You did not refuse him, then?" said Lady Ball.

"Not then, but I have done so since by letter. Twice I have written to him, telling him that
I had nothing of my own, and that there could be nothing between us."

"I got her letters," said Mr Maguire, turning round to Lady Ball. "I certainly got her letters.
But such letters as those, if they are written under dictation--"

He was rather anxious that Lady Bell should quarrel with him. In the programme which he had
made for himself when he came to the house, a quarrel to the knife with the Ball family was
a part of his tactics. The contemplation of that unknown
picture made me think for hours, and I'll never forget the impressions collected there.

Lyon maintained their communications that give extraordinary animation, through fifteen bridges,
most very solid, but where are the best two masonry in one of the Saone and the Rhone wood.
Some are hanging, and almost all are subject pontazgo to being of individual companies. In the
central city streets are in general straight and spacious, especially the new ones, among which
we distinguish splendid Imperial Street, reputed as one of the most beautiful in Europe.
d Mr Maguire, "may I ask to see you for one minute alone?"

"Certainly not," said she. "If you have anything more to say I will hear it in my aunt's presence."
She waited a few moments, but as he did not speak, she took herself back to the door and made
her escape to her own room.

How Mr Maguire took himself out of the house we need not stop to inquire. There must, I should
think, have been some difficulty in the manoeuvre. It was considerably past three when Sir
John was taken out for his drive, and while he was in the carriage his wife told him what had
occurred.

CHAPTER XXII

Still at the Cedars

Margaret, when she had reached her own room, and seated herself so that she could consider
all that had occurred in quietness, immediately knew her own difficulty. Of course Lady Ball
would give her account of what had occurred to her son, and of course John would be angry when
he learned that there had been any purpose of marriage between her and Mr Maguire. She herself
took a different view of the matter now than that which had hitherto presented itself. She
had not thought much of Mr Maguire or his proposal. It had been made under a state of things
differing much from that now existing, and the change that had come upon her affairs had seemed
to her to annul the offer. She had learned to regard it almost as though it had never been.
There had been no engagement; there had hardly been a purpose in her own mind; and the moment
had never come in which she could have spoken of it to her cousin with propriety.

That last, in truth, was her valid excuse for not having told him the whole story. She had
hardly been with him long enough to do more than accept the offer he had himself made. Of course
she would have told him of Mr Maguire,--of Mr Maguire and of Mr Rubb also, when first an opportunity
might come for her to do so. She had no desire to keep from his knowledge any tittle of what
had occurred. There had been nothing of which she was ashamed. But not the less did she feel
that it would have been well for her that she should have told her own story before that horrid
man had come to the Cedars. The story would now first be told to him by her aunt, and she knew
well the tone in which it would be told.

