'No--over--no,' snapped Jawleyford; 'what should put that in your head?'

'Oh, I thought as Mr. Sponge was here, you might think it a good time to ask him.'

'His lordship knows he can come when he likes,' replied Jawleyford, adding, 'it's to put that
Mr. John Spraggon off, who thinks he may do the same.'

'Mr. Spraggon!' exclaimed both the young ladies. 'Mr. Spraggon!--what should set him here?'

'What, indeed?' asked Jawleyford.

'Poor man! I dare say there's no harm in him,' observed Mrs. Jawleyford, who was always ready
for anybody.

'No good either,' replied Jawleyford--'at all events, we'll be just as well without him. You
know him, don't you?' added he, turning to Sponge--'great coarse man in spectacles.'

'Oh yes, I know him,' replied Sponge; 'a great ruffian he is, too,' added he.

'One ought to be in robust health to encounter such a man,' observed Jawleyford, 'and have
time to get a man or two of the same sort to meet him. We can do nothing with such a man. I
can't understand how his lordship puts up with such a fellow.'

'Finds him useful, I suppose,' observed Mr. Sponge.

Spigot presently appeared with a massive silver salver, bearing tumblers, sugar, lemon, nutmeg,
and other implements of negus.

'Will you join me in a little wine-and-water?' asked Jawleyford, pointing to the apparatus
and bottle ends, 'or will you have a fresh bottle?--plenty in the cellar,' added he, with a
flourish of his hand, though he kept looking steadfastly at the negus-tray.

'Oh--why--I'm afraid--I doubt--I think I should hardly be able to do justice to a bottle single-handed,'
replied Sponge. 'Then have negus,' said Jawleyford; 'you'll find it very refreshing; medical
men recommend it after violent exercise in preference to wine. But pray have wine if you prefer
it.'

'Ah--well, I'll finish off with a little negus, perhaps,' replied Sponge, adding, 'meanwhile
the ladies, I dare say, would like a little wine.'

'The ladies drink white wine--sherry,' rejoined Jawleyford, determined to make a last effort
to save his port. 'However, you can have a bottle of port to yourself, you know.'

'Very well,' said Sponge.

'One condition I must attach,' said Mr. Jawleyford, 'which is, that you finish the bottle.
Don't let us have any waste, you know.'

'I'll do my best,' said Sponge, determined to have it; whereupon Mr. Jawleyford growled the
word 'Port' to the butler, who had been witnessing his master's efforts to direct attention
to the negus. Thwarted in his endeavour, Jawleyford's headache became worse, and the ladies,
seeing how things were going, beat a precipitate retreat, leaving our hero to his fate.

'I'll leave a note on my writing-table when I go to bed,' observed Jawleyford to Spigot, as
the latter was retiring after depositing the bottle; 'and tell Harry to start with it early
in the morning, so as to get to Woodmansterne about breakfast--nine o'clock, or so, at latest,'
added he.

'Yes, sir,' replied Spigot, withdrawing with an air.

Sponge then wanted to narrate the adventures of the day; but, independently of Jawleyford's
natural indifference for hunting, he was too much out of humour at being done out of his wine
to lend a willing ear; and after sundry 'hums,' 'indeeds,' 'sos,' &c., Sponge thought he might
as well think the run over to himself as trouble to put it into words, whereupon a long silence
ensued, interrupted only by the tinkling of Jawleyford's spoon against his glass, and the bumps
of the decanter as Sponge helped himself to his wine.

At length Jawleyford, having had as much negus as he wanted, excused himself from further attendence,
under the plea of increasing illness, and retired to his study to concoct his letter to Jack.

At first he was puzzled how to address him. If he had been Jack Spraggon, living in old Mother
Nipcheese's lodgings at Starfield, as he was when Lord Scamperdale took him by the hand, he
would have addressed him as 'Dear Sir,' or perhaps in the third person, 'Mr. Jawleyford presents
his compliments to Mr. Spraggon,' &c.; but, as my lord's right-hand man, Jack carried a certain
weight, and commanded a certain influence, that he would never have acquired of himself.

Jawleyford spoilt three sheets of cream-laid satin-wove note-paper (crested and ciphered) before
he pleased himself with a beginning. First he had it 'Dear Sir,' which he thought looked too
stiff; then he had it 'My dear Sir,' which he thought looked too loving; next he had it 'Dear
Spraggon,' which he considered as too familiar; and then he tried 'Dear Mr. Spraggon,' which
he thought would do. Thus he wrote:

    'DEAR MR. SPRAGGON,--

    'I am sorry to be obliged to put you off; but since I came in from
    hunting I have been attacked with influenza, which will
    incapacitate me from the enjoyment of society at least for two or
    three days. I therefore think the kindest thing I can do is to
    write to put you off; and, in the hopes of seeing both you and my
    lord at no distant day.

    'I remain, dear sir, yours sincerely,

    'CHARLES JAMES JAWLEYFORD,

    'Jawleyford Court.

    'TO JOHN SPRAGGON, ESQ.,

    &c. &c. &c.'

This he sealed with the great seal of Jawleyford Court--a coat of arms containing innumerable
quarterings and heraldic devices. Having then refreshed his memory by looking through a bundle
of bills, and selected the most threatening of the lawyers' letters to answer the next day,
he proceeded to keep up the delusion of sickness, by retiring to sleep in his dressing-room.
Our readers will now have the kindness to accompany us to Lord Scamperdale's: time, the morning
after the foregoing. 'Love me, love my dog,' being a favourite saying of his lordship's, he
fed himself, his friends, and his hounds, on the same meal. Jack and he were busy with two
great basins full of porridge, which his lordship diluted with milk, while Jack stirred his
up with hot dripping, when the put-off note arrived. His lordship was still in a complete suit
of the great backgammon-board-looking red-and-yellow Stunner tartan: but as Jack was going
from home, he had got himself into a pair of his lordship's yellow-ochre leathers and new top-boots,
while he wore the Stunner jacket and waistcoat to save his lordship's Sunday green cutaway
with metal buttons, and canary-coloured waistcoat. His lordship did not eat his porridge with
his usual appetite, for he had had a disturbed night, Sponge having appeared to him in his
dreams in all sorts of forms and predicaments; now jumping a-top of him--now upsetting Jack--now
riding over Frostyface--now crashing among his hounds; and he awoke, fully determined to get
rid of him by fair means or foul. Buying his horses did not seem so good a speculation as blowing
his credit at Jawleyford Court, for, independently of disliking to part with his cash, his
lordship remembered that there were other horses to get, and he should only be giving Sponge
the means of purchasing them. The more, however, he thought of the Jawleyford project, the
more satisfied he was that it would do; and Jack and he were in a sort of rehearsal, wherein
his lordship personated Jawleyford, and was showing Jack (who was only a clumsy diplomatist)
how to draw up to the subject of Sponge's pecuniary deficiencies, when the dirty old butler
came with Jawleyford's note.

'What's here?' exclaimed his lordship, fearing from its smartness, that it was from a lady.
'What's here?' repeated he, as he inspected the direction. 'Oh, it's for you!' exclaimed he,
chucking it over to Jack, considerably relieved by the discovery.

'Me!' replied Jack. 'Who can be writing to me?' said he, squinting his eyes inside out at the
seal. He opened it: 'Jawleyford Court,' read he. 'Who the deuce can be writing to me from Jawleyford
Court when I'm going there?'

'A put-off, for a guinea!' exclaimed his lordship.

'Hope so,' muttered Jack.

'Hope not,' replied his lordship.

'It is!' exclaimed Jack, reading, 'Dear Mr. Spraggon,' and so on.

'The humbug!' muttered Lord Scamperdale, adding, 'I'll be bound he's got no more influenza
than I have.'

'Well,' observed Jack, sweeping a red cotton handkerchief, with which he had been protecting
his leathers, off into his pocket, 'there's an end of that.'

'Don't go so quick,' replied his lordship, ladling in the porridge. 

I gave up at the end of the second day.

Of course I will tell you all about it when we meet.

No one seemed to doubt that Alaric would get it, as a matter of course.

I shall be with you on next Saturday. Alaric says he will not go down till the Saturday after,
when I shall be at Normansgrove. My best love to the girls. Tell Katie I shan't drown either
myself or the boat,
'Yours ever affectionately,

'H. N.

'Saturday, September, 185-.

'Pray
write me a kind letter to comfort me.'

'There's no beating you,' observed Jack.

Bags now made his appearance again.

'Is the servant here that brought this note?' asked his lordship, holding it up.

'Yes, me lord,' replied Bags.

'Then tell him to tell his master, with my compliments, that Mr. Spraggon had set off for Jawleyford
Court before it came, but that he shall have it as soon as he returns--you understand?'

'Yes, me lord,' replied Bags, looking at Jack supping up the fat porridge, and wondering how
the lie would go down with Harry, who was then discussing his master's merits and a horn of
small beer with the lad who was going to drive Jack.

Jawleyford Court was twenty miles from Woodmansterne as the crow flies, and any distance anybody
liked to call it by the road. The road, indeed, would seem to have been set out with a view
of getting as many hills and as little level ground over which a traveller could make play
as possible; and where it did not lead over the tops of the highest hills, it wound round their
bases, in such little, vexatious, up-and-down, wavy dips as completely to do away with all
chance of expedition. The route was not along one continuous trust, but here over a bit of
turnpike and there over a bit of turnpike, with ever and anon long interregnums of township
roads, repaired in the usual primitive style with mud and soft field-stones, that turned up
like flitches of bacon. A man would travel from London to Exeter by rail in as short a time,
and with far greater ease, than he would drive from Lord Scamperdale's to Jawleyford Court.
His lordship being aware of this fact, and thinking, moreover, it was no use trashing a good
horse over such roads, had desired Frostyface to put an old spavined grey mare, that he had
bought for the kennel, into the dog-cart, and out of which, his lordship thought, if he could
get a day's work or two, she would come all the cheaper to the boiler.

'That's a good-shaped beast,' observed his lordship, as she now came hitching round to the
door; 'I really think she would make a cover hack.'

'Sooner you ride her than me,' replied Jack, seeing his lordship was coming the dealer over
him--praising the shape when he could say nothing for the action.

'Well, but she'll take you to Jawleyford Court as quick as the best of them,' rejoined his
lordship, adding, 'the roads are wretched, and Jaw's stables are a disgrace to humanity--might
as well put a horse in a cellar.'

'Well,' observed Jack, retiring from the parlour window to his little den along the passage,
to put the finishing touch to his toilet--the green cutaway and buff waistcoat, which he further
set off with a black satin stock--'Well,' said he, 'needs must when a certain gentleman drives.'

He presently reappeared full fig, rubbing a fine new eight-and-sixpenny flat-brimmed hat round
and round with a substantial puce-coloured bandana. 'Now for the specs!' exclaimed he, with
the gaiety of a man in his Sunday's best, bound on a holiday trip. 'Now for the silver specs!'
repeated he.

'Ah, true,' replied his lordship; 'I'd forgot the specs.' (He hadn't, only he thought his silver-mounted
ones would be safer in his keeping than in Jack's.) 'I'd forgot the specs. However, never mind,
you shall have these,' said he, taking his tortoise-shell-rimmed ones off his nose and handing
them to Jack.

'You promised me the silver ones,' observed our friend Jack, who wanted to be smart.

'Did I?' replied his lordship; 'I declare I'd forgot. Ah yes, I believe I did,' added he, with
an air of sudden enlightenment--'the pair upstairs; but how the deuce to get at them I don't
know, for the key of the Indian cabinet is locked in the old oak press in the still-room, and
the key of the still-room is locked away in the linen-press in the green lumber-room at the
top of the house, and the key of the green lumber-room is in a drawer at the bottom of the
wardrobe in the Star-Chamber, and the--'

'Ah, well; never mind,' grunted Jack, interrupting the labyrinth of lies. 'I dare say these
will do--I dare say these will do,' putting them on; adding, 'Now, if you'll lend me a shawl
for my neck, and a mackintosh, my name shall be Walker.'

'Better make it Trotter,' replied his lordship, 'considering the distance you have to go.'

'Good,' said Jack, mounting and driving away.

'It will be a blessing if we get there,' observed Jack to the liveried stable-lad, as the old
bag of bones of a mare went hitching and limping away.

'Oh, she can go when she's warm,' replied the lad, taking her across the ears with the point
of the whip. The wheels followed merrily over the sound, hard road through the park, and the
gentle though almost imperceptible fall of the ground giving an impetus to the vehicle, they
bowled away as if they had four of the soundest, freshest legs in the world before them, instead
of nothing but a belly-band between them and eternity.

When, however, they cleared the noble lodge and got upon the unscraped mud of the Deepdebt
turnpike, the pace soon slackened, and, instead of the gig running away with the old mare,
she was fairly brought to her collar. Being a game one, however, she struggled on with a trot,
till at length, turning up the deeply spurlinged, clayey bottomed cross-road between Rookgate
and Clamley, it was all she could do to drag the gig through the holding mire. Bump, bump,
jolt, jolt, creak, creak, went the vehicle. Jack now diving his elbow into the lad's ribs,
the lad now diving his into Jack's; both now threatening to go over on the same side, and again
both nearly chucked on to the old mare's quarters. A sharp, cutting sleet, driving pins and
needles directly in their faces, further disconcerted our travellers. Jack felt acutely for
his new eight-and-sixpenny hat, it being the only article of dress he had on of his own.

Long and tedious as was the road, weak and jaded as was the mare, and long as Jack stopped
at Starfield, he yet reached Jawleyford Court before the messenger Harry.

As our friend Jawleyford was stamping about his study anathematizing a letter he had received
from the solicitor to the directors of the Doembrown and Sinkall Railway, informing him that
they were going to indulge in the winding-up act, he chanced to look out of his window just
as the contracted limits of a winter's day were drawing the first folds of night's muslin curtain
over the landscape, when he espied a gig drawn by a white horse, with a dot-and-go-one sort
of action, hopping its way up the slumpey avenue.

'That's Buggins the bailiff,' exclaimed he to himself, as the recollection of an unanswered
lawyer's letter flashed across his mind; and he was just darting off to the bell to warn Spigot
not to admit any one, when the lad's cockade, standing in relief against the sky-line, caused
him to pause and gaze again at the unwonted apparition.

'Who the deuce can it be?' asked he of himself, looking at his watch, and seeing it was a quarter-past
four. 'It surely can't be my lord, or that Jack Spraggon coming after all?' added he, drawing
out a telescope and opening a lancet-window.

'Spraggon, as I live!' exclaimed he, as he caught Jack's harsh, spectacled features, and saw
him titivating his hair and arranging his collar and stock as he approached.

'Well, that beats everything!' exclaimed Jawleyford, burning with rage as he fastened the window
again.

He stood for a few seconds transfixed to the spot, not knowing what on earth to do. At last
resolution came to his aid, and, rushing upstairs to his dressing-room, he quickly divested
himself of his coat and waistcoat, and slipped on a dressing-gown and night-cap. He then stood,
door in hand, listening for the arrival. He could just hear the gig grinding under the portico,
and distinguish Jack's gruff voice saying to the servant from the top of the steps, 'We'll
start directly after breakfast, mind.' A tremendous peal of the bell immediately followed,
convulsing the whole house, for nobody had seen the vehicle approaching, and the establishment
had fallen into the usual state of undress torpor that intervenes between calling hours and
dinner-time.

The bell not being answered as quickly as Jack expected, he just opened the door himself; and
when Spigot arrived, with such a force as he could raise at the moment, Jack was in the act
of 'peeling' himself, as he called it.

'What time do we dine?' asked he, with the air of a man with the entrée.

'Seven o'clock, my lord--that's to say, sir--that's to say, my lord,' for Spigot really didn't
know whether it was Jack or his master.

'Seven o'clock!' muttered Jack. 'What the deuce is the use of dinin' at such an hour as that
in winter?'

Jack and my lord always dined as soon as they got home from hunting. Jack, having got himself
out of his wraps, and run his bristles backwards with a pocket-comb, was ready for presentation.

'What name shall I enounce?' asked Mr. Spigot, fearful of committing himself before the ladies.

'MISTER SPRAGGON, to be sure,' exclaimed Jack, thinking, because he knew who he was, that everybody
else ought to know too.

Spigot then led the way to the music-room.

The peal at the bell had caused a suppressed commotion in the apartment. Buried in the luxurious
depths of a well-cushioned low chair, Mr. Sponge sat, Mogg in hand, with a toe cocked up, now
dipping leisurely into his work--now whispering something sweet into Amelia's ear, who sat
with her crochet-work at his side; while Emily played the piano, and Mrs. Jawleyford kept in
the background, in the discreet way mothers do when there is a little business going on. The
room was in that happy state of misty light that usually precedes the entrance of candles--a
light that no one likes to call darkness, lest their eyes might be supposed to be failing.
It is a convenient light, however, for a timid stranger, especially where there are not many
footstools set to trip him up--an exemption, we grieve to say, not accorded to every one.

Though Mr. Spraggon was such a cool, impudent fellow with men, he was the most awkward, frightened
wretch among ladies that ever was seen. His conversation consisted principally of coughing.
'Hem!'--cough--'yes, mum,'--hem--cough, cough--'the day,'--hem--cough--'mum, is'--hem--cough--'very,'--hem--cough--'mum,
cold.' But we will introduce him to our family circle.

'MR. SPRAGGON!' exclaimed Spigot in a tone equal to the one in which Jack had announced himself
in the entrance; and forthwith there was such a stir in the twilit apartment--such suppressed
exclamations of:

'Mr. Spraggon!--Mr. Spraggon! What can bring him here?'

Our traveller's creaking boots and radiant leathers eclipsing the sombre habiliments of Mr.
Spigot, Mrs. Jawleyford quickly rose from her Pembroke writing-desk, and proceeded to greet him.

'My daughters I think you know, Mr. Spraggon; also Mr. Sponge? Mr. Spraggon,' continued she,
with a wave of her hand to where our hero was ensconced in his form, in case they should not
have made each other's speaking acquaintance.

The young ladies rose, and curtsied prettily; while Mr. Sponge gave a sort of backward hitch
of his head as he sat in his chair, as much as to say, 'I know as much of Mr. Spraggon as I want.'

'Tell your master Mr. Spraggon is here,' added Mrs. Jawleyford to Spigot, as that worthy was
leaving the room. 'It's a cold day, Mr. Spraggon; won't you come near the fire?' continued
Mrs. Jawleyford, addressing our friend, who had come to a full stop just under the chandelier
in the centre of the room. 'Hem--cough--hem--thank ye, mum,' muttered Jack. 'I'm not--hem--cough--cold,
thank ye, mum.' His face and hands were purple notwithstanding.

'How is my Lord Scamperdale?' asked Amelia, who had a strong inclination to keep in with all
parties.

'Hem--cough--hem--my lord--that's to say, my lady--hem--cough--I mean to say, my lord's pretty
well, thank ye,' stuttered Jack.

'Is he coming?' asked Amelia.

'Hem--cough--hem--my lord's--hem--not well--cough--no--hem--I mean to say--hem--cough--my lord's
gone--hem--to dine--cough--hem--with his--cough--friend Lord Bubbley Jock--hem--cough--I mean
Barker--cough.'

Jack and Lord Scamperdale were so in the habit of calling his lordship by this nickname, that
Jack let it slip, or rather cough out, inadvertently. 

He could not divest his mind of the subject. What was he to do? Where was he to go? How was
he to get away, even for a time, from Alaric Tudor?

And then, was he right in wishing to get away from him?

Had he not told himself, over and over again, that it behoved him
as a man and a friend and a Christian to conquer the bitter feeling
of envy which preyed on his spirits?

Had he not himself counselled Alaric to stand this examination? and
had he not promised that his doing so should make no difference in
their friendship?

 Spigot brought candles, and Mr. Sponge sat moodily in his chair, alternately
studying Mogg's Cab Fares--'Old Bailey, Newgate Street, to or from the Adelphi, the Terrace,
1s. 6d.; Admiralty, 2s.'; and so on; and hazarding promiscuous sidelong sort of observations,
that might be taken up by Jack or not, as he liked. He seemed determined to pay Mr. Jack off
for his out-of-door impudence. Amelia, on the other hand, seemed desirous of making up for
her suitor's rudeness, and kept talking to Jack with an assiduity that perfectly astonished
her sister, who had always heard her speak of him with the utmost abhorrence.

Mrs. Jawleyford found her husband in a desperate state of excitement, his influenza being greatly
aggravated by Harry having returned very drunk, with the mare's knees desperately broken 'by
a fall,' as Harry hiccuped out, or by his 'throwing her down,' as Jawleyford declared. Horses
fall with their masters, servants throw them down. What a happiness it is when people can send
their servants on errands by coaches or railways, instead of being kept on the fidget all day,
lest a fifty-pound horse should be the price of a bodkin or a basket of fish!

Amelia's condescension quite turned Jack's head; and when he went upstairs to dress, he squinted
at his lordship's best clothes, all neatly laid out for him on the bed, with inward satisfaction
at having brought them.

'Dash me!' said he, 'I really think that girl has a fancy for me.' Then he examined himself
minutely in the glass, brushed his whiskers up into a curve on his cheeks, the curves almost
corresponding with the curve of his spectacles above; then he gave his bristly, porcupine-shaped
head a backward rub with a sort of thing like a scrubbing-brush. 'If I'd only had the silver
specs,' thought he, 'I should have done.'

He then began to dress; an operation that, ever and anon was interrupted by the outburst of
volleys of smoke from the little spluttering, smouldering fire in the little shabby room Jawleyford
insisted on having him put into.

Jack tried all things--opening the window and shutting the door, shutting the window and opening
the door; but finding that, instead of curing it, he only produced the different degrees of
comparison--bad, worse, worst--he at length shut both, and applied himself vigorously to dressing.
He soon got into his stockings and pumps, also his black Saxony trousers; then came a fine
black laced fringe cravat, and the damson-coloured velvet waistcoat with the cut-steel buttons.

'Dash me, but I look pretty well in this!' said he, eyeing first one side and then the other
as he buttoned it. He then stuck a chased and figured fine gold brooch, with two pendant tassel-drops,
set with turquoise and agates, that he had abstracted from his lordship's dressing-case, into
his, or rather his lordship's finely worked shirt-front, and crowned the toilet with his lordship's
best new blue coat with velvet collar, silk facings, and the Flat Hat Hunt button--'a striding
fox,' with the letters 'F.H.H.' below.

'Who shall say Mr. Spraggon's not a gentleman?' said he, as he perfumed one of his lordship's
fine coronetted cambric handkerchiefs with lavender-water. Scent, in Jack's opinion, was one
of the criterions of a gentleman.

Somehow Jack felt quite differently towards the house of Jawleyford; and though he did not
expect much pleasure in Mr. Sponge's company, he thought, nevertheless, that the ladies and
he--Amelia and he at least--would get on very well. Forgetting that he had come to eject Sponge
on the score of insufficiency, he really began to think he might be a very desirable match
for one of them himself.

'The Spraggons are a most respectable family,' said he, eyeing himself in the glass. 'If not
very handsome, at all events, very genteel,' added he, speaking of himself in particular. So
saying, he adorned himself with his spectacles and set off to explore his way downstairs. After
divers mistakes he at length found himself in the drawing-room, where the rest of the party
being assembled, they presently proceeded to dinner.

Jack's amended costume did not produce any difference in Mr. Sponge's behaviour, who treated
him with the utmost indifference. In truth, Sponge had rather a large balance against Jack
for his impudence to him in the field. Nevertheless, the fair Amelia continued her attentions,
and talked of hunting, occasionally diverging into observations on Lord Scamperdale's fine
riding and manly character and appearance, in the roundabout way ladies send their messages
and compliments to their friends.

The dinner was flat. Jawleyford had stopped the champagne tap, though the needle-case glasses
stood to tantalize the party till about the time that the beverage ought to have been flowing,
when Spigot took them off. The flatness then became flatter. Nevertheless, Jack worked away
in his usual carnivorous style, and finished by paying his respects to all the sweets, jellies,
and things in succession. He never got any of these, he said, at 'home,' meaning at Lord Scamperdale's--Amelia
thought, if she was 'my lady,' he would not get any meat there either.

At length Jack finished; and having discussed cheese, porter, and red herrings, the cloth was
drawn, and a hard-featured dessert, consisting principally of apples, followed. The wine having
made a couple of melancholy circuits, the strained conversation about came to a full stop,
and Spigot having considerately placed the little round table, as if to keep the peace between
them, the ladies left the male worthies to discuss their port and sherry together. Jack, according
to Woodmansterne fashion, unbuttoned his waistcoat, and stuck his legs out before him--an example
that Mr. Sponge quickly followed, and each assumed an attitude that as good as said 'I don't
care twopence for you.' A dead silence then prevailed, interrupted only by the snap, snap,
snapping of Jack's toothpick against his chair-edge, when he was not busy exploring his mouth
with it. It seemed to be a match which should keep silence longest. Jack sat Squinting his
eyes inside out at Sponge, while Sponge pretended to be occupied with the fire. The wine being
with Sponge, and at length wanting some, he was constrained to make the first move, by passing
it over to Jack, who helped himself to port and sherry simultaneously--a glass of sherry after
dinner (in Jack's opinion) denoting a gentleman. Having smacked his lips over that, he presently
turned to the glass of port. He checked his hand in passing it to his mouth, and bore the glass
up to his nose.

'Corked, by Jove!' exclaimed he, setting the glass down on the table with a thump of disgust.

It is curious what unexpected turns things sometimes take in the world, and how completely
whole trains of well-preconcerted plans are often turned aside by mere accidents such as this.
If it hadn't been for the corked bottle of port, there is no saying but these two worthies
would have held a Quakers' meeting without the 'spirit' moving either of them.

'Corked, by Jove!' exclaimed Jack.

'It is!' rejoined Sponge, smelling at his half-emptied glass.

'Better have another bottle,' observed Jack.

'Certainly,' replied Sponge, ringing the bell. 'Spigot, this wine's corked,' observed Sponge,
as old Pomposo entered the room.

'Is it?' said Spigot, with the most perfect innocence, though he knew it came out of the corked
batch. 'I'll bring another bottle,' added he, carrying it off as if he had a whole pipe at
command, though in reality he had but another out. This fortunately was less corked than the
first; and Jack having given an approving smack of his great thick lips, Mr. Sponge took it
on his judgement, and gave a nod to Spigot, who forthwith took his departure.

'Old trick that,' observed Jack, with a shake of the head, as Spigot shut the door.

'Is it?' observed Mr. Sponge, taking up the observation, though in reality it was addressed
to the fire.

'Noted for it,' replied Jack, squinting at the sideboard, though he was staring intently at
Sponge to see how he took it.

'Well, I thought we had a bottle with a queer smatch the other night,' observed Sponge.

'Old Blossomnose corked half a dozen in succession one night,' replied Jack.

(He had corked three, but Jawleyford re-corked them, and Spigot was now reproducing them to
our friends.)

Although they had now got the ice broken, and entered into something like a conversation, it
nevertheless went on very slowly, and they seemed to weigh each word before it was uttered.
Jack, too, had time to run his peculiar situation through his mind, and ponder on his mission
from Lord Scamperdale--on his lordship's detestation of Mr. Sponge, his anxiety to get rid
of him, his promised corner in his will, and his lordship's hint about buying Sponge's horses
if he could not get rid of him in any other way.

Sponge, on his part, was thinking if there was any possibility of turning Jack to account.

