Madame de Saint-Simon and others advised me, however, at all hazards, to go straight to the
King, instead of sending a courier, as I thought of doing, and to keep my journey secret. 
I followed their advice, and setting out at once, arrived at Marly on Tuesday morning, the
8th of August, at eight of the clock.  The Chancellor and Chamillart, to whom I told my errand,
pitied me, but gave me no hope of success.  Nevertheless, a council of state was to be held
on the following morning, presided over by the King, and my petition was laid before it.  The
letters of state were thrown out by every voice.  This information was brought to me at mid-day.
I partook of a hasty dinner, and turned back to Rouen, where I arrived on Thursday, at eight
o'clock in the morning, three hours after a courier, by whom I had sent this unhoped-for news.

I brought with me, besides the order respecting the letters of state, an order to the parliament
to proceed to judgment at once.  It was laid before the judges very early on Saturday, the
11th of August, the last day of the parliament.  From four o'clock in the morning we had an
infinite number of visitors, wanting to accompany us to the palace.  The parliament had been
much irritated against these letters of state, after having suspended all other business for
us.  The withdrawal of these letters was now announced.  We gained our cause, with penalties
and expenses, amid acclamations which resounded through the court, and which followed us into
the streets.  We could scarcely enter our street, so full was it with the crowd, or our house,
which was equally crowded.  Our kitchen chimney soon after took fire, and it was only a marvel
that it was extinguished, without damage, after having strongly warned us, and turned our joy
into bitterness.  There was only the master of the house who was unmoved.  We dined, however,
with a grand company; and after stopping one or two days more to thank our friends, we went
to see the sea at Dieppe, and then to Cani, to a beautiful house belonging to our host at Rouen.

As for Madame d'Aumont, she was furious at the ill-success of her affair. It was she who had
obtained the letters of state from the steward of her son-in-law.  Her son-in-law had promised
me that they should not be used, and wrote at once to say he had had no hand in their production.
M. de Brissac, who had been afraid to look me in the face ever since he had taken part in this
matter, and with whom I had openly broken, was now so much ashamed that he avoided me everywhere.

CHAPTER XXXVII

It was just at the commencement of the year 1706, that I received a piece of news which almost
took away my breath by its suddenness, and by the surprise it caused me.  I was on very intimate
terms with Gualterio, the nuncio of the Pope.  Just about this time we were without an ambassador
at Rome.  The nuncio spoke to me about this post; but at my age--I was but thirty--and knowing
the unwillingness of the King to employ young men in public affairs, I paid no attention to
his words.  Eight days afterwards he entered my chamber-one Tuesday, about an hour after mid-
day-his arms open, joy painted upon his face, and embracing me, told me to shut my door, and
even that of my antechamber, so that he should not be seen.  I was to go to Rome as ambassador.
I made him repeat this twice over: it seemed so impossible.  If one of the portraits in my
chamber had spoken to me, I could not have been more surprised. Gualterio begged me to keep
the matter secret, saying, that the appointment would be officially announced to me ere long.

I went immediately and sought out Chamillart, reproaching him for not having apprised me of
this good news.  He smiled at my anger, and said that the King had ordered the news to be kept
secret.  I admit that I was flattered at being chosen at my age for an embassy so important.
I was advised on every side to accept it, and this I determined to do.  I could not understand,
however, how it was I had been selected.  Torcy, years afterwards, when the King was dead,
related to me how it came about.  At this time I had no relations with Torcy; it was not until
long afterwards that friendship grew up between us.

He said, then, that the embassy being vacant, the King wished to fill up that appointment,
and wished also that a Duke should be ambassador.  He took an almanack and began reading the
names of the Dukes, commencing with M. de Uzes.  He made no stop until he came to my name.
Then he said (to Torcy), "What do you think of him?  He is young, but he is good," &c. The
King, after hearing a few opinions expressed by those around him, shut up the almanack, and
said it was not worth while to go farther, determined that I should be ambassador, but ordered
the appointment to be kept secret.  I learnt this, more than ten years after its occurrence,
from a true man, who had no longer any interest or reason to disguise anything from me.

Advised on all sides by my friends to accept the post offered to me, I did not long hesitate
to do so.  Madame de Saint-Simon gave me the same advice, although she herself was pained at
the idea of quitting her family.  I cannot refuse myself the pleasure of relating here what
the three ministers each said of my wife, a woman then of only twenty-seven years of age. 
All three, unknown to each other, and without solicitation on my part, counselled me to keep
none of the affairs of my embassy secret from her, but to give her a place at the end of the
table when I read or wrote my despatches, and to consult her with deference upon everything.
I have rarely so much relished advice as I did in this case. Although, as things fell out,
I could not follow it at Rome, I had followed it long before, and continued to do so all my
life.  I kept nothing secret from her, and I had good reason to be pleased that I did not.
Her counsel was always wise, judicious, and useful, and oftentimes she warded off from me many
inconveniences.

But to continue the narrative of this embassy.  It was soon so generally known that I was going
to Rome, that as we danced at Marly, we heard people say, "Look!  M. l'Ambassadeur and Madame
l'Ambassadrice are dancing."  After this I wished the announcement to be made public as soon
as possible, but the King was not to be hurried.  Day after day passed by, and still I was
kept in suspense.  At last, about the middle of April, I had an interview with Chamillart one
day, just after he came out of the council at which I knew my fate had been decided. On the other
hand, the vivid imagination which restores dead bones to life makes its possessor a partisan
in extinct quarrels, and as short-sighted and unfair a partisan as the original actors. Roundheads
and Cavaliers have been dead these two centuries.

Dumb are those names erewhile in battle loud; Dreamfooted as the shadow of a cloud, They flit
across the ear.

Yet few even amongst modern writers are capable of doing justice to
both sides without first making both sides colourless. Hallam judges
men in the throes of a revolution as though they were parties in a
lawsuit to be decided by precedents and parchments, and Carlyle cannot
appreciate Cromwell's magnificent force of character without making
him all but infallible and impeccable.
I felt, however, that I had now lost all favour with the King, and, indeed, he estranged himself
from me more and more each day.  By what means I recovered myself it is not yet time to tell.

On the night between the 3rd and 4th of February, Cardinal Coislin, Bishop of Orleans, died.
He was a little man, very fat, who looked like a village curate.  His purity of manners and
his virtues caused him to be much loved.  Two good actions of his life deserve to be remembered.

When, after the revocation of the edict of Nantes, the King determined to convert the Huguenots
by means of dragoons and torture, a regiment was sent to Orleans, to be spread abroad in the
diocese.  As soon as it arrived, M. d'Orleans sent word to the officers that they might make
his house their home; that their horses should be lodged in his stables.  He begged them not
to allow a single one of their men to leave the town, to make the slightest disorder; to say
no word to the Huguenots, and not to lodge in their houses.  He resolved to be obeyed, and
he was.  The regiment stayed a month; and cost him a good deal.  At the end of that time he
so managed matters that the soldiers were sent away, and none came again.  This conduct, so
full of charity, so opposed to that of nearly all the other dioceses, gained as many Huguenots
as were gained by the barbarities they suffered elsewhere.  It needed some courage, to say
nothing of generosity, to act thus, and to silently blame, as it were, the conduct of the King.

The other action of M. d'Orleans was less public and less dangerous, but was not less good.
He secretly gave away many alms to the poor, in addition to those he gave publicly.  Among
those whom he succoured was a poor, broken-down gentleman, without wife or child, to whom he
gave four hundred livres of pension, and a place at his table whenever he was at Orleans. 
One morning the servants of M. d'Orleans told their master that ten pieces of plate were missing,
and that suspicion fell upon the gentleman.  M. d'Orleans could not believe him guilty, but
as he did not make his appearance at the house for several days, was forced at last to imagine
he was so.  Upon this he sent for the gentleman, who admitted himself to be the offender.

M. d'Orleans said he must have been strangely pressed to commit an action of this nature, and
reproached him for not having mentioned his wants. Then, drawing twenty Louis from his pocket,
he gave them to the gentleman, told him to forget what had occurred, and to use his table as
before.  M. d'Orleans prohibited his servants to mention their suspicions, and this anecdote
would never have been known, had it not been told by the gentleman himself, penetrated with
confusion and gratitude.

M. d'Orleans, after he became cardinal, was often pressed by his friends to give up his bishopric.
But this he would not listen to.  The King had for him a respect that was almost devotion.
When Madame de Bourgogne was about to be delivered of her first child, the King sent a courier
to M. d'Orleans requesting him to come to Court immediately, and to remain there until after
the delivery.  When the child was born, the King would not allow it to be sprinkled by any
other hand than that of M. d'Orleans. The poor man, very fat, as I have said, always sweated
very much;--on this occasion, wrapped up in his cloak and his lawn, his body ran with sweat
in such abundance, that in the antechamber the floor was wet all round where he stood.  All
the Court was much afflicted at his death; the King more than anybody spoke his praises.  It
was known after his death, from his valet de chambre, that he mortified himself continually
with instruments of penitence, and that he rose every night and passed an hour on his knees
in prayer.  He received the sacraments with great piety, and died the night following as he
had lived.

Heudicourt the younger, a species of very mischievous satyr, and much mixed up in grand intrigues
of gallantry, made, about this time, a song upon the grand 'prevot' and his family.  It was
so simple, so true to nature, withal so pleasant, that some one having whispered it in the
ear of the Marechal de Boufflers at chapel, he could not refrain from bursting into laughter,
although he was in attendance at the mass of the King.  The Marechal was the gravest and most
serious man in all France; the greatest slave to decorum.  The King turned round therefore,
in surprise, which augmented considerably when he saw the Marechal de Boufflers nigh to bursting
with laughter, and the tears running down his cheeks.  On turning into his cabinet, he called
the Marechal, and asked what had got him in that state at the mass.  The Marechal repeated
the song to him.  Thereupon the King burst out louder than the Marechal had, and for a whole
fortnight afterwards could not help smiling whenever he saw the grand 'prevot' or any of his
family.  The song soon spread about, and much diverted the Court and the town.

I should particularly avoid soiling this page with an account of the operation for fistula
which Courcillon, only son of Dangeau, had performed upon him, but for the extreme ridicule
with which it was accompanied.  Courcillon was a dashing young fellow, much given to witty
sayings, to mischief, to impiety, and to the filthiest debauchery, of which latter, indeed,
this operation passed publicly as the fruit.  His mother, Madams Dangeau, was in the strictest
intimacy with Madame de Maintenon.  They two alone, of all the Court, were ignorant of the
life Courcillon led.  Madame was much afflicted; and quitted his bed-side, even for a moment,
with pain.  Madame de Maintenon entered into her sorrow, and went every day to bear her company
at the pillow of Courcillon.  Madame d'Heudicourt, another intimate friend of Madame de Maintenon,
was admitted there also, but scarcely anybody else. Courcillon listened to them, spoke devotionally
to them, and uttered the reflections suggested by his state.  They, all admiration, published
everywhere that he was a saint.  Madame d'Heudicourt and a few others who listened to these
discourses, and who knew the pilgrim well, and saw him loll out his tongue at them on the sly,
knew not what to do to prevent their laughter, and as soon as they could get away went and
related all they had heard to their friends.  Courcillon, who thought it a mighty honour to
have Madame de Maintenon every day for nurse, but who, nevertheless, was dying of weariness,
used to see his friends in the evening (when Madame de Maintenon and his mother were gone),
and would relate to them, with burlesque exaggeration, all the miseries he had suffered during
the day, and ridicule the devotional discourses he had listened to.  All the time his illness
lasted, Madame de Maintenon came every day to see him, so that her credulity, which no one
dared to enlighten, was the laughing-stock of the Court.  She conceived such a high opinion
of the virtue of Courcillon, that she cited him always as an example, and the King also formed
the same opinion.  Courcillon took good care not to try and cultivate it when he became cured;
yet neither the King nor Madame de Maintenon opened their eyes, or changed their conduct towards
him.  Madame de Maintenon, it must be said, except in the sublime intrigue of her government
and with the King, was always the queen of dupes.

It would seem that there are, at certain times, fashions in crimes as in clothes.  At the period
of the Voysins and the Brinvilliers, there were nothing but poisoners abroad; and against these,
a court was expressly instituted, called ardente, because it condemned them to the flames.
At the time of which I am now speaking, 1703, for I forgot to relate what follows in its proper
place, forgers of writings were in the ascendant, and became so common, that a chamber was
established composed of councillors of state and others, solely to judge the accusations which
this sort of criminals gave rise to.

The Bouillons wished to be recognised as descended, by male issue, of the Counts of Auvergne,
and to claim all kinds of distinctions and honours in consequence.  They had, however, no proofs
of this, but, on the contrary, their genealogy proved it to be false.  All on a sudden, an
old document that had been interred in the obscurity of ages in the church of Brioude, was
presented to Cardinal Bouillon.  It had all the marks of antiquity, and contained a triumphant
proof of the descent of the house of La Tour, to which the Bouillons belonged, from the ancient
Counts of Auvergne. The Cardinal was delighted to have in his hands this precious document.
But to avoid all suspicion, he affected modesty, and hesitated to give faith to evidence so
decisive.  He spoke in confidence to all the learned men he knew, and begged them to examine
the document with care, so that he might not be the dupe of a too easy belief in it.

Whether the examiners were deceived by the document, or whether they allowed themselves to
be seduced into believing it, as is more than probable, from fear of giving offence to the
Cardinal, need not be discussed.  It is enough to say that they pronounced in favour of the
deed, and that Father Mabillon, that Benedictine so well known throughout all Europe by his
sense and his candour, was led by the others to share their opinion.

After this, Cardinal de Bouillon no longer affected any doubt about the authenticity of the
discovery.  All his friends complimented him upon it, the majority to see how he would receive
their congratulations.  It was a chaos rather than a mixture, of vanity the most outrageous,
modesty the most affected, and joy the most immoderate which he could not restrain.

Unfortunately, De Bar, who had found the precious document, and who had presented it to Cardinal
de Bouillon, was arrested and put in prison a short time after this, charged with many forgeries.
This event made some stir, and caused suspicion to fall upon the document, which was now attentively
examined through many new spectacles.  Learned men unacquainted with the Bouillons contested
it, and De Bar was so pushed upon this point, that he made many delicate admissions.  Alarm
at once spread among the Bouillons.  They did all in their power to ward off the blow that
was about to fall.  Seeing the tribunal firm, and fully resolved to follow the affair to the
end, they openly solicited for De Bar, and employed all their credit to gain his liberation.
At last, finding the tribunal inflexible, they were reduced to take an extreme resolution.
M. de Bouillon admitted to the King, that his brother, Cardinal de Bouillon, might, unknown
to all of them, have brought forward facts he could not prove.  He added, that putting himself
in the King's hands, he begged that the affair might be stopped at once, out of consideration
for those whose only guilt was too great credulity, and too much confidence in a brother who
had deceived them.  The King, with more of friendship for M. de Bouillon than of reflection
as to what he owed by way of reparation for a public offence, agreed to this course.

De Bar, convicted of having fabricated this document, by his own admission before the public
tribunal, was not condemned to death, but to perpetual imprisonment.  As may be believed, this
adventure made a great stir; but what cannot be believed so easily is, the conduct of the Messieurs
Bouillon about fifteen months afterwards.

At the time when the false document above referred to was discovered, Cardinal de Bouillon
had commissioned Baluze, a man much given to genealogical studies, to write the history of
the house of Auvergne. In this history, the descent, by male issue; of the Bouillons from the
Counts of Auvergne, was established upon the evidence supplied by this document.  At least,
nobody doubted that such was the case, and the world was strangely scandalised to see the work
appear after that document had been pronounced to be a forgery.  Many learned men and friends
of Baluze considered him so dishonoured by it, that they broke off all relations with him,
and this put the finishing touch to the confusion of this affair. 

Jeffrey thinks it generally a duty to conceal his fears and affect a confidence which he does
not feel; but perhaps the best piece of writing in his essays is that in which he for once
gives full expression to his pessimist sentiment.

The carriage had reached the plain of Bissancourt, and was passing between a farm on the road
near Sevres bridge and a cabaret, called the "Dawn of Day," when it was stopped by fifteen
or sixteen men on horseback, who seized on Beringhen, hurried him into a post-chaise in waiting,
and drove off with him.  The King's carriage, with the coachman, footmen, and groom, was allowed
to go back to Versailles.  As soon as it reached Versailles the King was informed of what had
taken place.  He sent immediately to his four Secretaries of State, ordering them to send couriers
everywhere to the frontiers, with instructions to the governors to guard all the passages,
so that if these horsemen were foreign enemies, as was suspected, they would be caught in attempting
to pass out of the kingdom.  It was known that a party of the enemy had entered Artois, that
they had committed no disorders, but that they were there still.  Although people found it
difficult, at first, to believe that Beringhen had been carried off by a party such as this,
yet as it was known that he had no enemies, that he was not reputed sufficiently rich to afford
hope of a large ransom, and that not one of our wealthiest financiers had been seized in this
manner, this explanation was at last accepted as the right one.

So in fact it proved.  A certain Guetem, a fiddler of the Elector of Bavaria, had entered the
service of Holland, had taken part in her war against France, and had become a colonel.  Chatting
one evening with his comrades, he laid a wager that he would carry off some one of mark between
Paris and Versailles.  He obtained a passport, and thirty chosen men, nearly all of whom were
officers.  They passed the rivers disguised as traders, by which means they were enabled to
post their relays [of horses].  Several of them had remained seven or eight days at Sevres,
Saint Cloud, and Boulogne, from which they had the hardihood to go to Versailles and see the
King sup.  One of these was caught on the day after the disappearance of Beringhen, and when
interrogated by Chamillart, replied with a tolerable amount of impudence.  Another was caught
in the forest of Chantilly by one of the servants of M. le Prince. From him it became known
that relays of horses and a post-chaise had been provided at Morliere for the prisoner when
he should arrive there, and that he had already passed the Oise.

As I have said, couriers were despatched to the governors of the frontiers; in addition to
this, information of what had taken place was sent to all the intendants of the frontier, to
all the troops in quarters there.  Several of the King's guards, too, and the grooms of the
stable, went in pursuit of the captors of Beringhen.  Notwithstanding the diligence used, the
horsemen had traversed the Somme and had gone four leagues beyond Ham-Beringhen, guarded by
the officers, and pledged to offer no resistance--when the party was stopped by a quartermaster
and two detachments of the Livry regiment.  Beringhen was at once set at liberty.  Guetem and
his companion were made prisoners.

The grand fault they had committed was to allow the King's carriage and the footmen to go back
to Versailles so soon after the abduction.  Had they led away the coach under cover of the
night, and so kept the King in ignorance of their doings until the next day, they would have
had more time for their retreat.  Instead of doing this they fatigued themselves by too much
haste.  They had grown tired of waiting for a carriage that seemed likely to contain somebody
of mark.  The Chancellor had passed, but in broad daylight, and they were afraid in consequence
to stop him. M. le Duc d'Orleans had passed, but in a post-chaise, which they mistrusted. The
qualities, however, which charm the purely literary critic do not account for the whole of
Cowper's influence. A great part of his immediate, and some part of his more enduring success,
have been clearly owing to a different cause. On reading Johnson's 'Lives,' Cowper remarked,
rather uncharitably, that there was scarcely one good man amongst the poets. Few poets, indeed,
shared those religious views which commended him more than any literary excellence to a large
class of readers.  The party missed one of their relays,
and that delayed them very much.

Beringhen, delighted with his rescue, and very grateful for the good treatment he had received,
changed places with Guetem and his companions, led them to Ham, and in his turn treated them
well.  He wrote to his wife and to Charnillart announcing his release, and these letters were
read with much satisfaction by the King.

On Tuesday, the 29th of March, Beringhen arrived at Versailles, about eight o'clock in the
evening, and went at once to the King, who was in the apartments of Madame de Maintenon, and
who received him well, and made him relate all his adventures.  But the King was not pleased
when he found the officers of the stable in a state of great delight, and preparing fireworks
to welcome Beringhen back.  He prohibited all these marks of rejoicing, and would not allow
the fireworks to be let off.  He had these little jealousies.  He wished that all should be
devoted to him alone, without reserve and without division.  All the Court, however, showed
interest in this return, and Beringhen was consoled by the public welcome he received for his
fatigue.

Guetem and his officers, while waiting the pleasure of the King, were lodged in Beringhen's
house in Paris, where they were treated above their deserts.  Beringhen obtained permission
for Guetem to see the King.  He did more; he presented Guetem to the King, who praised him
for having so well treated his prisoner, and said that war always ought to be conducted properly.
Guetem, who was not without wit, replied, that he was so astonished to find himself before
the greatest King in the world, and to find that King doing him the honour of speaking to him,
that he had not power enough to answer.  He remained ten or twelve days in Beringhen's house
to see Paris, the Opera and the Comedy, and became the talk of the town.  People ran after
him everywhere, and the most distinguished were not ashamed to do likewise.  On all sides he
was applauded for an act of temerity, which might have passed for insolence.  Beringhen regaled
him, furnished him with carriages and servants to accompany him, and, at parting, with money
and considerable presents.  Guetem went on his parole to Rheims to rejoin his comrades until
exchanged, and had the town for prison.  Nearly all the others had escaped.  The project was
nothing less than to carry off Monseigneur, or one of the princes, his sons.

This ridiculous adventure gave rise to precautions, excessive in the first place, and which
caused sad obstructions of bridges and gates.  It caused, too, a number of people to be arrested.
The hunting parties of the princes were for some time interfered with, until matters resumed
their usual course.  But it was not bad fun to see, during some time, the terror of ladies,
and even of men, of the Court, who no longer dared go abroad except in broad daylight, even
then with little assurance, and imagining themselves everywhere in marvellous danger of capture.

I have related in its proper place the adventure of Madame la Princesse de Conti with Mademoiselle
Choin and the attachment of Monseigneur for the latter.  This attachment was only augmented
by the difficulty of seeing each other.

Mademoiselle Choin retired to the house of Lacroix, one of her relatives at Paris, where she
lived quite hidden.  She was informed of the rare days when Monseigneur dined alone at Meudon,
without sleeping there.  She went there the day before in a fiacre, passed through the courts
on foot, ill clad, like a common sort of woman going to see some officer at Meudon, and, by
a back staircase, was admitted to Monseigneur who passed some hours with her in a little apartment
on the first floor.  In time she came there with a lady's-maid, her parcel in her pocket, on
the evenings of the days that Monseigneur slept there.

She remained in this apartment without seeing anybody, attended by her lady's-maid, and waited
upon by a servant who alone was in the secret. There was always, however, an air of mystery
about the matter.  The parties that took place were kept secret, although frequent, and were
called parvulos.

Mademoiselle Choin remained in her little apartment only for the convenience of Monseigneur.
She slept in the bed and in the grand apartment where Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne lodged
when the King was at Meudon.  She always sat in an arm-chair before Monseigneur; Madame de
Bourgogne sat on a stool.  Mademoiselle Choin never rose for her; in speaking of her, even
before Monseigneur and the company, she used to say "the Duchesse de Bourgogne," and lived
with her as Madame de Maintenon did excepting that "darling" and "my aunt," were terms not
exchanged between them, and that Madame de Bourgogne was not nearly so free, or so much at
her ease, as with the King and Madame de Maintenon.  Monsieur de Bourgogne was much in restraint.
His manners did not agree with those of that world.  Monseigneur le Duc de Berry, who was more
free, was quite at home.

Mademoiselle Choin went on fete-days to hear mass in the chapel at six o'clock in the morning,
well wrapped up, and took her meals alone, when Monseigneur did not eat with her.  When he
was alone with her, the doors were all guarded and barricaded to keep out intruders.  People
regarded her as being to Monseigneur, what Madame de Maintenon was to the King. All the batteries
for the future were directed and pointed towards her. People schemed to gain permission to
visit her at Paris; people paid court to her friends and acquaintances, Monseigneur le Duc
de Bourgogne sought to please her, was respectful to her, attentive to her friends, not always
with success.  She acted towards Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne like a mother-in-law, and
sometimes spoke with such authority and bluntness to Madame de Bourgogne as to make her cry.

The King and Madame de Maintenon were in no way ignorant of all this, but they held their tongues,
and all the Court who knew it, spoke only in whispers of it.  This is enough for the present;
it will serve to explain many things, of which I shall speak anon.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

