"Upon my word I don't think I should care about it as long as my husband stood by me. What
is it after all? People say that you and Margaret are the Lion and the Lamb. What's the harm
of being called a lamb or a lion either? As long as people are not made to believe that you
have behaved badly, that you have been false or cruel, I can't see that it comes to much. One
does not, of course, wish to have newspaper articles written about one."

"No, indeed."

"But they can't break your bones, nor can they make the world think you dishonest, as long
as you take care that you are honest. Now, in this matter, I take it for granted that you and
Margaret are going to make a match of it--"

"Has she told you so?"

Mrs Mackenzie paused a moment to collect her thoughts before she answered; but it was only
for a moment, and Sir John Ball hardly perceived that she had ceased to speak.

"No," she said; "she has not told me so. But I have told her that it must be so."

"And she does not wish it?"

"Do you want me to tell a lady's secret? But in such a case as this the truth is always the
best. She does wish it, with all her heart,--as much as any woman ever wished for anything.
You need have no doubt about her loving you."

"Of course, Mrs Mackenzie, I should take care in any case that she were provided for amply.
If a single life will suit her best, she shall have half of all that she ever thought to be
her own."

"And do you wish it to be so?"

"I have not said that, Mrs Mackenzie. But it may be that I should wish her to have the choice
fairly in her own power."

"Then I can tell you at once which she would choose. Your offer is very generous. It is more
than generous. But, Sir John, a single life will not suit her; and my belief is, that were
you to offer her the money without your hand, she would not take a farthing of it."

"She must have some provision."

"She will take none from you but the one, and you need be under no doubt whatsoever that she
will take that without a moment's doubt as to her own future happiness. And, Sir John, I think
you would have the best wife that I know anywhere among my acquaintance." Then she stopped,
and he sat silent, making no reply. (Gravely.) Matter'f habit!

A Serious Exc. (in an undertone.) A very bad habit, I'm afraid. It's
really time somebody else took the reins from him!

The M.M. (overhearing).
I'm afraid they mean me--I wish now I'd never touched the reins at
all! She
felt that she could not see Margaret without saying something of what had passed between herself
and Sir John, and that it would be better that nothing should be said. So she went away to
her own room, and dispatched her maid to send the lamb to the lion. Nevertheless, it was not
without compunction, some twang of feminine conscience, that Mrs Mackenzie gave up this opportunity
of saying some last important word, and perhaps doing some last important little act with regard
to those nicenesses of which she thought perhaps too much. Mrs Mackenzie's philosophy was not
without its truth; but a man of fifty should not be made to marry a woman by muslin and starch,
if he be not prepared to marry her on other considerations.

When the message came, Margaret thought nothing of the muslin and starch. The bonnet that had
been worth its weight in gold, and the black-freckled dress, were all forgotten. But she thought
of the words which her cousin John had spoken to her as soon as they had got through the little
gate into the grounds of the Cedars when they had walked back together from the railway station
at Twickenham; and she remembered that she had then pledged herself to be firm. If he alluded
to the offer he had then made, and repeated it, she would throw herself into his arms at once,
and tell him that she would serve him with all her heart and all her strength as long as God
might leave them together. But she was quite as strongly determined to accept from him for
herself no other kind of provision. That money which for a short while had been hers was now
his; and she could have no claim upon him unless he gave her the claim of a wife. After what
had passed between them she would not be the recipient of his charity. Certain words had been
written and spoken from which she had gathered the existence, in Mr Slow's mind, of some such
plan as this. His client should lose her cause meekly and graciously, and should then have
a claim for alms. That had been the idea on which Mr Slow had worked. She had long made up
her mind that Mr Slow should be taught to know her better, if the day for such offering of
alms should ever come. Perhaps it had come now. She took up a little scarf that she wore ordinarily
and folded it tight across her shoulders, quite forgetful of muslin and starch, as she descended
to the drawing-room in order that this question might be solved for her.

Sir John met her almost at the door as she entered.

"I'm afraid you've been expecting me to come sooner," he said.

"No, indeed; I was not quite sure that you would come at all."

"Oh, yes; I was certain to come. You have hardly received as yet any official notification
that your cause has been lost."

"It was not my cause, John," she said, smiling, "and I received no other notification than
what I got through Mrs Mackenzie. Indeed, as you know, I have regarded this law business as
nonsense all through. Since what you and Mr Slow told me, I have known that the property was
yours."

"But it was quite necessary to have a judgment."

"I suppose so, and there's an end of it. I, for one, am not in the least disappointed,--if
it will give you any comfort to know that."

"I don't believe that any other woman in England would have lost her fortune with the equanimity
that you have shown."

She could not explain to him that, in the first days of dismay caused by that misfortune, he
had given her such consolation as to make her forget her loss, and that her subsequent misery
had been caused by the withdrawal of that consolation. She could not tell him that the very
memory of her money had been, as it were, drowned by other hopes in life,--by other hopes and
by other despair. But when he praised her for her equanimity, she thought of this. She still
smiled as she heard his praise.

"I suppose I ought to return the compliment," she said, "and declare that no cousin who had
been kept so long out of his own money ever behaved so well as you have done. I can assure
you that I have thought of it very often,--of the injustice that has been involuntarily done
to you."

"It has been unjust, has it not?" said he, piteously, thinking of his injuries. "So much of
it has gone in that oilcloth business, and all for nothing!"

"I'm glad at any rate that Walter's share did not go."

He knew that this was not the kind of conversation which he had desired to commence, and that
it must be changed before anything could be settled. So he shook himself and began again.

"And now, Margaret, as the lawyers have finished their part of the business, ours must begin."

She had been standing hitherto and had felt herself to be strong enough to stand, but at the
sound of these words her knees had become weak under her, and she found a retreat upon the
sofa. Of course she said nothing as he came and stood over her.

"I hope you have understood," he continued, "that while all this was going on I could propose
no arrangement of any kind."

"I know you have been very much troubled."

"Indeed I have. It seems that any blackguard has a right to publish any lies that he likes
about any one in any of the newspapers, and that nobody can do anything to protect himself!
Sometimes I have thought that it would drive me mad!"

But he again perceived that he was getting out of the right course in thus dwelling upon his
own injuries. He had come there to alleviate her misfortunes, not to talk about his own.

"It is no good, however, talking about all that; is it, Margaret?"

"It will cease now, will it not?"

"I cannot say. I fear not. Whichever way I turn, they abuse me for what I do. What business
is it of theirs?"

"You mean their absurd story--calling you a lion."

"Don't talk of it, Margaret."

Then Margaret was again silent. She by no means wished to talk of the story, if he would only
leave it alone.

"And now about you."

Then he came and sat beside her, and she put her hand back behind the cushion on the sofa so
as to save herself from trembling in his presence. She need not have cared much, for, let her
tremble ever so much, he had then no capacity for perceiving it.

"Come, Margaret; I want to do what is best for us both. How shall it be?"

"John, you have children, and you should do what is best for them."

Then there was a pause again, and when he spoke after a while, he was looking down at the floor
and poking among the pattern on the carpet with his stick.

"Margaret, when I first asked you to marry me, you refused me."

"I did," said she; "and then all the property was mine."

"But afterwards you said you would have me."

"Yes; and when you asked me the second time I had nothing. I know all that."

"I thought nothing about the money then. I mean that I never thought you refused me because
you were rich and took me because you were poor. I was not at all unhappy about that when we
were walking round the shrubbery. But when I thought you had cared for that man--"

"I had never cared for him," said Margaret, withdrawing her hand from behind the pillow in
her energy, and fearing no longer that she might tremble. "I had never cared for him. He is
a false man, and told untruths to my aunt."

"Yes, he is, a liar,--a damnable liar. That is true at any rate."

"He is beneath your notice, John, and beneath mine. I will not speak of him."

Sir John, however, had an idea that when he felt the wasp's venom through all his blood, the
wasp could not be altogether beneath his notice.

"The question is," said he, speaking between his teeth, and hardly pronouncing his words, "the
question is whether you care for me."

"I do," said she turning round upon him; and as she did so our Griselda took both his hands
in hers. "I do, John. I do care for you. I love you better than all the world besides. Whom
else have I to love at all? If you choose to think it mean of me, now that I am so poor, I
cannot help it. But who was it told me to be firm? Who was it told me? Who was it told me?"

Lady Ball had lost her game, and Mrs Mackenzie had been a true prophet. Mrs Mackenzie had been
one of those prophets who knew how to assist the accomplishment of their own prophecies, and
Lady Ball had played her game with very indifferent skill. Sir John endeavoured to say a word
as to that other alternative that he had to offer, but the lamb was not lamb-like enough to
listen to it. I doubt even whether Margaret knew, when at night she thought over the affairs
of the day, that any such offer had been made to her. During the rest of the interview she
was by far the greatest talker, and she would not rest till she had made him swear that he
believed her when she said, that both in rejecting him and accepting him, she had been guided
simply by her affection. "You know, John," she said, "a woman can't love a man all at once."

They had been together for the best part of two hours, when Mrs Mackenzie knocked at the door.
"May I come in?"

"Oh, yes," said Margaret.

"And may I ask a question?" She knew by the tone of her cousin's voice that no question could
come amiss.

"You must ask him," said Margaret, coming to her and kissing her.

"But, first of all," said Mrs Mackenzie, shutting the door and assuming a very serious countenance,
"I have news of my own to tell. There is a gentleman downstairs in the dining-room who has
sent up word that he wants to see me. He says he is a clergyman."

Then Sir John Ball ceased to smile, and look foolish, but doubled his fist, and went towards
the door.

"Who is it?" said Margaret, whispering.

"I have not heard his name, but from the servant's account of him I have not much doubt myself;
I suppose he comes from Littlebath. You can go down to him, if you like, Sir John; but I would
not advise it."

"No," said Margaret, clinging to his arm, "you shall not go down. What good can you do? He
is beneath you. If you beat him he will have the law of you--and he is a clergyman. If you
do not, he will only revile you, and make you wretched." Thus between the two ladies the baronet
was restrained.

It was Mr Maguire. Having learned from his ally, Miss Colza, that Margaret was staying with
her cousins in Cavendish Square, he had resolved upon calling on Mrs Mackenzie, and forcing
his way, if possible, into Margaret's presence. Things were not going well with him at Littlebath,
and in his despair he had thought that the best chance to him of carrying on the fight lay
in this direction. Then there was a course of embassies between the dining-room and drawing-room
in the Mackenzie mansion. The servant was sent to ask the gentleman his name, and the gentleman
sent up to say that he was a clergyman,--that his name was not known to Mrs Mackenzie, but
that he wanted to see her most particularly for a few minutes on very special business. Then
the servant was despatched to ask him whether or no he was the Rev. Jeremiah Maguire, of Littlebath,
and under this compulsion he sent back word that such was his designation. Nothing would please
her--she was cross with her governess at breakfast, she quarrelled with her bread-and-milk; and even
when her favourite tame Rook, Cawcus, came hopping on her shoulder,
she refused to give it anything to eat, but hit it on the beak with
her spoon. He was again told to
go; and then told again, that if he did not leave the house at once, the assistance of the
police would be obtained. Then he went. "And it was frightful to behold him," said the servant,
coming up for the tenth time. But the servant no doubt enjoyed the play, and on one occasion
presumed to remark that he did not think any reference to the police was necessary. "Such a
game as we've had up!" he said to the coachman that afternoon in the kitchen.

And the game that they had in the drawing-room was not a bad game either. When Mr Maguire would
not go, the two women joined in laughing, till at last the tears ran down Mrs Mackenzie's face.

"Only think of our being kept prisoners here by a one-eyed clergyman."

"He has got two eyes," said Margaret. "If he had ten he shan't see us."

And at last Sir John laughed; and as he laughed he came and stood near Margaret; and once he
got his arm round her waist, and Griselda was very happy. At the present moment she was quite
indifferent to Mr Maguire and any mode of fighting that he might adopt.

CHAPTER XXX

Conclusion

Things had not been going well with Mr Maguire when, as a last chance, he attempted to force
an entrance into Mrs Mackenzie's drawing-room. Things, indeed, had been going very badly with
him. Mr Stumfold at Littlebath had had an interview with the editor of the Christian Examiner,
and had made that provincial Jupiter understand that he must drop the story of the Lion and
the Lamb. There had been more than enough of it, Mr Stumfold thought; and if it were continued,
Mr Stumfold would--would make Littlebath too hot to hold the Christian Examiner. That was the
full meaning of Mr Stumfold's threat; and, as the editor knew Mr Stumfold's power, the editor
wisely turned a cold shoulder upon Mr Maguire. When Mr Maguire came to the editor with his
letter for publication, the editor declared that he should be happy to insert it--as an advertisement.
Then there had been a little scene between Mr Maguire and the editor, and Mr Maguire had left
the editorial office shaking the dust from off his feet. But he was a persistent man, and,
having ascertained that Miss Colza was possessed of some small share in her brother's business
in the city, he thought it expedient to betake himself again to London. He did so, as we have
seen; and with some very faint hope of obtaining collateral advantage for himself, and some
stronger hope that he might still be able to do an injury to Sir John Ball, he went to the
Mackenzies' house in Cavendish Square. There his success was not great; and from that time
forward the wasp had no further power of inflicting stings upon the lion whom he had persecuted.

But some further annoyance he did give to Griselda. He managed to induce Mrs Tom Mackenzie
to take him in as a lodger in Gower Street, and Margaret very nearly ran into his way in her
anxiety to befriend her sister-in-law. Luckily she heard from Mr Rubb that he was there on
the very day on which she had intended to visit Gower Street. Poor Mrs Mackenzie got the worst
of it; for of course Mr Maguire did not pay for his lodgings. But he did marry Miss Colza,
and in some way got himself instituted to a chapel at Islington. There we will leave him, not
trusting much in his connubial bliss, but faintly hoping that his teaching may be favourable
to the faith and morals of his new flock.

Of Mr Samuel Rubb, junior, we must say a few words. His first acquaintance with our heroine
was not made under circumstances favourable to him. In that matter of the loan, he departed
very widely from the precept which teaches us that honesty is the best policy. And when I feel
that our Margaret was at one time really in danger of becoming Mrs Rubb,--that in her ignorance
of the world, in the dark gropings of her social philosophy, amidst the difficulties of her
solitude, she had not known whether she could do better with herself and her future years,
than give herself, and them, and her money to Mr Samuel Rubb, I tremble as I look back upon
her danger. It has been said of women that they have an insane desire for matrimony. I believe
that the desire, even if it be as general as is here described, is no insanity. But when I
see such a woman as Margaret Mackenzie in danger from such a man as Samuel Rubb, junior, I
am driven to fear that there may sometimes be a maniacal tendency. But Samuel Rubb was by no
means a bad man. He first hankered after the woman's money, but afterwards he had loved the
woman; and my female reader, if she agrees with me, will feel that that virtue covers a multitude
of sins. 

(10) Nevertheless, I warrant it is written in this fashion with an eye to rectitude, to make
the reader wise and good, not more sophistical. For I would wish my writings not to seem but
rather to be useful. I would have them stand the test of ages in
their blamelessness. It this way it came to pass that
he occasionally saw the lady to whose hand he had aspired; for Margaret, when she was assured
that Mr Maguire and his bride were never likely to be seen in that locality, did not desert
her nephews and nieces in Gower Street.

But we must go back to Sir John Ball. As soon as the coast was clear in Cavendish Square, he
took his leave of Margaret. Mrs Mackenzie had left the room, desiring to speak a word to him
alone as he came down.

"I shall tell my mother to-night," he said to Margaret. "You know that all this is not exactly
as she wishes it."

"John," she said, "if it is as you wish it, I have no right to think of anything beyond that."

"It is as I wish it," said he.

"Then tell my aunt, with my love, that I shall hope that she will receive me as her daughter."

Then they parted, and Margaret was left alone to congratulate herself over her success.

"Sir John," said Mrs Mackenzie, calling him into the drawing-room; "you must hear my congratulations;
you must, indeed."

"Thank you," said he, looking foolish; "you are very good."

"And so is she. She is what you may really call good. She is as good as gold. I know a woman
when I see her; and I know that for one like her there are fifty not fit to hold a candle to
her. She has nothing mean or little about her--nothing. They may call her a lamb, but she can
be a lioness too when there is an occasion."

"I know that she is steadfast," said he.

"That she is, and honest, and warm hearted; and--and Oh! Sir John, I am so happy that it is
all to be made right, and nice, and comfortable. It would have been very sad if she hadn't
gone with the money; would it not?"

"I should not have taken the money--not all of it."

"And she would not have taken any. She would not have taken a penny of it, though we need not
mind that now; need we? But there is one thing I want to say; you must not think I am interfering."

"I shan't think that after all that you have done."

"I want her to be married from here. It would be quite proper; wouldn't it? Mr Mackenzie is
a little particular about the grouse, because there is to be a large party at Incharrow; but
up to the 10th of August you and she should fix any day you like."

Sir John showed by his countenance that he was somewhat taken aback. The 10th of August, and
here they were far advanced into June! When he had left home this morning he had not fully
made up his mind whether he meant to marry his cousin or not; and now, within a few hours,
he was being confined to weeks and days! Mrs Mackenzie saw what was passing in his mind; but
she was not a woman to be driven easily from her purpose.

"You see," she said, "there is so much to think of. What is Margaret to do, if we leave her
in London when we go down? And it would really be better for her to be married from her cousin's
house; it would, indeed. Lady Ball would like it better--I'm sure she would--than if she were
to be living alone in the town in lodgings. There is always a way of doing things; isn't there?
And Walter's sisters, her own cousins, could be her bridesmaids, you know."

Sir John said that he would think about it.

"I haven't spoken to her, of course," said Mrs Mackenzie; "but I shall now."

Sir John, as he went eastwards into the city, did think about it; and before he had reached
his own house that evening, he had brought himself to regard Mrs Mackenzie's scheme in a favourable
light. He was not blind to the advantage of taking his wife from a house in Cavendish Square,
instead of from lodgings in Arundel Street; and he was aware that his mother would not be blind
to that advantage either. He did not hope to be able to reconcile her to his marriage at once;
and perhaps he entertained some faint idea that for the first six months of his new married
life the Cedars would be quite as pleasant without his mother as with her; but a final reconciliation
would be more easy if he and his wife had the Mackenzies of Incharrow to back them, than it
could be without such influence. And as for the London gossip of the thing, the finale to the
romance of the Lion and the Lamb, it would be sure to come sooner or later. Let them have their
odious joke and have done with it!

"Mother," he said, as soon as he could find himself alone with Lady Ball that day, not waiting
for the midnight conference; "mother, I may as well tell you at once. I have proposed to Margaret
Mackenzie again to-day."

"Oh! very well."

"And she has accepted me."

"Accepted you! of course she has; jumped at the chance, no doubt. What else should a pauper do?"

"Mother, that is ungenerous."

"She did not accept you when she had got anything."

"If I can reconcile myself to that, surely you can do so. The matter is settled now, and I
think I have done the best in my power for myself and my children."

"And as for your mother, she may go and die anywhere."

