XXIII.  He was unwilling to be thought or called the grandson of Agrippa, because of the obscurity
of his birth; and he was offended if any one, either in prose or verse, ranked him amongst
the Caesars.  He said that his mother was the fruit of an incestuous commerce, maintained by
Augustus with his daughter Julia.  And not content with this vile reflection upon the memory
of Augustus, he forbad his victories at Actium, and on the coast of Sicily, to be celebrated,
as usual; affirming that they had been most pernicious and fatal to the Roman people.  He called
his grandmother Livia Augusta "Ulysses in a woman's dress," and had the indecency to reflect
upon her in a letter to the senate, as of mean birth, and descended, by the mother's side,
from a grandfather who was only one of the municipal magistrates of Fondi; whereas it is certain,
from the public records, that Aufidius Lurco held high offices at Rome.  His grandmother Antonia
desiring a private conference with him, he refused to grant it, unless Macro, the prefect of
the pretorian guards, were present.  Indignities of this kind, and ill usage, were the cause
of her death; but some think he also gave her poison.  Nor did he pay the smallest respect
to her memory after her death, but witnessed the burning from his private apartment.  His brother
Tiberius, who had no expectation of any violence, was suddenly dispatched by a military tribune
sent by his order for that purpose.  He forced Silanus, his father-in-law, to kill himself,
by cutting his throat with a razor.  The pretext he alleged for these murders was, that the
latter had not followed him upon his putting to sea in stormy weather, but stayed behind with
the view of seizing the city, if he should perish. Reyes was allowed to pity, to care, pamper might say, and do not have the courage to
deny the accident. How to tell which had fallen to the ground of taste, of love, not down by that
Shopping thick bush?

Serafina seemed to divine the truth in the eyes of his passion. The onlookers were left solos by little
Mochi no more coming and going, welcoming the fact that there had
been a disgrace; and finally left because he called the prompter.
It is believed, that he deflowered one of them, Drusilla, before he had assumed the robe of
manhood; and was even caught in her embraces by his grandmother Antonia, with whom they were
educated together.  When she was afterwards married to Cassius Longinus, a man of consular
rank, he took her from him, and kept her constantly as if she were his lawful wife.  In a fit
of sickness, he by his will appointed her heiress both of his estate and the empire.  After
her death, he ordered a public mourning for her; during which it was capital for any person
to laugh, use the bath, or sup with his parents, wife, or children.  Being inconsolable under
his affliction, he went hastily, and in the night-time, from the City; going through Campania
to Syracuse, and then suddenly returned without shaving his beard, or trimming his hair.  Nor
did he ever afterwards, in matters of the greatest importance, not even in the assemblies of
the people or before the soldiers, swear any otherwise, than "By the divinity of Drusilla."
The rest of his sisters he did not treat with so much fondness or regard; but frequently prostituted
them to his catamites.  He therefore the more readily condemned them in the case of Aemilius
Lepidus, as guilty of adultery, and privy to that conspiracy against him. Nor did he only divulge
their own hand-writing relative to the affair, which he procured by base and lewd means, but
likewise consecrated to Mars the Avenger three swords which had been prepared to stab him,
with an inscription, setting forth the occasion of their consecration.

XXV.  Whether in the marriage of his wives, in repudiating them, or retaining them, he acted
with greater infamy, it is difficult to say. Being at the wedding of Caius Piso with Livia
Orestilla, he ordered the bride to be carried to his own house, but within a few days divorced
her, and two years after banished her; because it was thought, that upon her divorce she returned
to the embraces of her former husband.  (269) Some say, that being invited to the wedding-supper,
he sent a messenger to Piso, who sat opposite to him, in these words: "Do not be too fond with
my wife," and that he immediately carried her off.  Next day he published a proclamation, importing,
"That he had got a wife as Romulus and Augustus had done." [424]  Lollia Paulina, who was married
to a man of consular rank in command of an army, he suddenly called from the province where
she was with her husband, upon mention being made that her grandmother was formerly very beautiful,
and married her; but he soon afterwards parted with her, interdicting her from having ever
afterwards any commerce with man.  He loved with a most passionate and constant affection Caesonia,
who was neither handsome nor young; and was besides the mother of three daughters by another
man; but a wanton of unbounded lasciviousness.  Her he would frequently exhibit to the soldiers,
dressed in a military cloak, with shield and helmet, and riding by his side.  To his friends
he even showed her naked.  After she had a child, he honoured her with the title of wife; in
one and the same day, declaring himself her husband, and father of the child of which she was
delivered.  He named it Julia Drusilla, and carrying it round the temples of all the goddesses,
laid it on the lap of Minerva; to whom he recommended the care of bringing up and instructing
her.  He considered her as his own child for no better reason than her savage temper, which
was such even in her infancy, that she would attack with her nails the face and eyes of the
children at play with her.

XXVI.  It would be of little importance, as well as disgusting, to add to all this an account
of the manner in which he treated his relations and friends; as Ptolemy, king Juba's son, his
cousin (for he was the grandson of Mark Antony by his daughter Selene) [425], and especially
Macro himself, and Ennia likewise [426], by whose assistance he had obtained the empire; all
of whom, for their alliance and eminent services, he rewarded with violent deaths.  Nor was
he more mild or respectful in his behaviour towards the senate.  Some who had borne the (270)
highest offices in the government, he suffered to run by his litter in their togas for several
miles together, and to attend him at supper, sometimes at the head of his couch, sometimes
at his feet, with napkins.  Others of them, after he had privately put them to death, he nevertheless
continued to send for, as if they were still alive, and after a few days pretended that they
had laid violent hands upon themselves.  The consuls having forgotten to give public notice
of his birth-day, he displaced them; and the republic was three days without any one in that
high office.  A quaestor who was said to be concerned in a conspiracy against him, he scourged
severely, having first stripped off his clothes, and spread them under the feet of the soldiers
employed in the work, that they might stand the more firm.  The other orders likewise he treated
with the same insolence and violence.  Being disturbed by the noise of people taking their
places at midnight in the circus, as they were to have free admission, he drove them all away
with clubs.  In this tumult, above twenty Roman knights were squeezed to death, with as many
matrons, with a great crowd besides.  When stage-plays were acted, to occasion disputes between
the people and the knights, he distributed the money-tickets sooner than usual, that the seats
assigned to the knights might be all occupied by the mob.  In the spectacles of gladiators,
sometimes, when the sun was violently hot, he would order the curtains, which covered the amphitheatre,
to be drawn aside [427], and forbad any person to be let out; withdrawing at the same time
the usual apparatus for the entertainment, and presenting wild beasts almost pined to death,
the most sorry gladiators, decrepit with age, and fit only to work the machinery, and decent
house-keepers, who were remarkable for some bodily infirmity. Sometimes shutting up the public
granaries, he would oblige the people to starve for a while.

XXVII.  He evinced the savage barbarity of his temper chiefly by the following indications.
When flesh was only to be had at a high price for feeding his wild beasts reserved for the
spectacles, he ordered that criminals should be given them (271) to be devoured; and upon inspecting
them in a row, while he stood in the middle of the portico, without troubling himself to examine
their cases he ordered them to be dragged away, from "bald-pate to bald-pate." [428]  Of one
person who had made a vow for his recovery to combat with a gladiator, he exacted its performance;
nor would he allow him to desist until he came off conqueror, and after many entreaties.  Another,
who had vowed to give his life for the same cause, having shrunk from the sacrifice, he delivered,
adorned as a victim, with garlands and fillets, to boys, who were to drive him through the
streets, calling on him to fulfil his vow, until he was thrown headlong from the ramparts.
After disfiguring many persons of honourable rank, by branding them in the face with hot irons,
he condemned them to the mines, to work in repairing the high-ways, or to fight with wild beasts;
or tying them by the neck and heels, in the manner of beasts carried to slaughter, would shut
them up in cages, or saw them asunder.  Nor were these severities merely inflicted for crimes
of great enormity, but for making remarks on his public games, or for not having sworn by the
Genius of the emperor.  He compelled parents to be present at the execution of their sons;
and to one who excused himself on account of indisposition, he sent his own litter.  Another
he invited to his table immediately after he had witnessed the spectacle, and coolly challenged
him to jest and be merry.  He ordered the overseer of the spectacles and wild beasts to be
scourged in fetters, during several days successively, in his own presence, and did not put
him to death until he was disgusted with the stench of his putrefied brain. 

More was, but the reason I said that in such cases the husbands of the world all had very little
to do, and that everything was now a thing of the mother and the doctor, he felt like he was
there being even more useless than other parents in similar situations, that is cornered too
much, too much of it is dispensed.

However, what he had said D. Venancio was no turning back.

- You, my friend Bonifacio, to bed, to bed a few hours, because this
may be long and we will need all forces, and if not you rest now,
you can not serve as fresh troops when needed.

"Well, this was rational." So he slept, because he always yielded to reason and evidence and give
further thought, if you could, now that would be a father and had to give example. But he had no
reason for being was the indifference of everyone else, including Emma, and the strange looks
and gestures that took their displays of paternal and marital everyone who walked around his
wife. Doña Celestina, registered midwife, who had come on the advice of D. Venancio, the husband
of the midwife, D. Alberto, who also walked there, Nepomuceno, Marta,
Sebastian and even the folksy Minghetti, although this was looking
at him at times with eyes that seemed to reveal some respect and some
awe.

Looking back and tying ropes, Bonis Serafina came to remember that it had wanted to give to understand,
some time ago already, that the birth of his son, de Bonis, was anything but should be taken
with heat in July Mochi himself, in a letter written months earlier from Corunna, spoke of the case
and paternal enthusiasm with a singular indifference, words behind which it seemed to him
to see the smiles of sympathy and even mocking. But, finally, what of Serafina and Mochi could
be jealousy and fear of losing their friendship and protection. Serafina seen in fixed, in what
was to come a rival, that would eventually steal the whole heart of his former lover, his good
friend ... "Poor Serafina!". No, there was that fear. He had a heart
for everyone. Charity, Fraternity, was compatible with the moral more
stringent. [431]

XXX.  He generally prolonged the sufferings of his victims by causing them to be inflicted
by slight and frequently repeated strokes; this being his well-known and constant order: (273)
"Strike so that he may feel himself die."  Having punished one person for another, by mistaking
his name, he said, "he deserved it quite as much."  He had frequently in his mouth these words
of the tragedian,

    Oderint dum metuant. [432]
    I scorn their hatred, if they do but fear me.

He would often inveigh against all the senators without exception, as clients of Sejanus, and
informers against his mother and brothers, producing the memorials which he had pretended to
burn, and excusing the cruelty of Tiberius as necessary, since it was impossible to question
the veracity of such a number of accusers [433].  He continually reproached the whole equestrian
order, as devoting themselves to nothing but acting on the stage, and fighting as gladiators.
Being incensed at the people's applauding a party at the Circensian games in opposition to
him, he exclaimed, "I wish the Roman people had but one neck." [434]  When Tetrinius, the highwayman,
was denounced, he said his persecutors too were all Tetrinius's.  Five Retiarii [435], in tunics,
fighting in a company, yielded without a struggle to the same number of opponents; and being
ordered to be slain, one of them taking up his lance again, killed all the conquerors.  This
he lamented in a proclamation as a most cruel butchery, and cursed all those who had borne
the sight of it.

XXXI.  He used also to complain aloud of the state of the times, because it was not rendered
remarkable by any public (274) calamities; for, while the reign of Augustus had been made memorable
to posterity by the disaster of Varus [436], and that of Tiberius by the fall of the theatre
at Fidenae [437], his was likely to pass into oblivion, from an uninterrupted series of prosperity.
And, at times, he wished for some terrible slaughter of his troops, a famine, a pestilence,
conflagrations, or an earthquake.

XXXII.  Even in the midst of his diversions, while gaming or feasting, this savage ferocity,
both in his language and actions, never forsook him.  Persons were often put to the torture
in his presence, whilst he was dining or carousing.  A soldier, who was an adept in the art
of beheading, used at such times to take off the heads of prisoners, who were brought in for
that purpose.  At Puteoli, at the dedication of the bridge which he planned, as already mentioned
[438], he invited a number of people to come to him from the shore, and then suddenly, threw
them headlong into the sea; thrusting down with poles and oars those who, to save themselves,
had got hold of the rudders of the ships.  At Rome, in a public feast, a slave having stolen
some thin plates of silver with which the couches were inlaid, he delivered him immediately
to an executioner, with orders to cut off his hands, and lead him round the guests, with them
hanging from his neck before his breast, and a label, signifying the cause of his punishment.
A gladiator who was practising with him, and voluntarily threw himself at his feet, he stabbed
with a poniard, and then ran about with a palm branch in his hand, after the manner of those
who are victorious in the games.  When a victim was to be offered upon an altar, he, clad in
the habit of the Popae [439], and holding the axe aloft for a while, at last, instead of the
animal, slaughtered an officer who attended to cut up the sacrifice.  And at a sumptuous entertainment,
he fell suddenly into a violent fit of laughter, and upon the consuls, who reclined next to
him, respectfully asking him the occasion, "Nothing," replied he, "but that, upon a single
nod of mine, you might both have your throats cut."

(275) XXXIII.  Among many other jests, this was one: As he stood by the statue of Jupiter,
he asked Apelles, the tragedian, which of them he thought was biggest?  Upon his demurring
about it, he lashed him most severely, now and then commending his voice, whilst he entreated
for mercy, as being well modulated even when he was venting his grief.  As often as he kissed
the neck of his wife or mistress, he would say, "So beautiful a throat must be cut whenever
I please;" and now and then he would threaten to put his dear Caesonia to the torture, that
he might discover why he loved her so passionately.

XXXIV.  In his behaviour towards men of almost all ages, he discovered a degree of jealousy
and malignity equal to that of his cruelty and pride. He so demolished and dispersed the statues
of several illustrious persons, which had been removed by Augustus, for want of room, from
the court of the Capitol into the Campus Martius, that it was impossible to set them up again
with their inscriptions entire.  And, for the future, he forbad any statue whatever to be erected
without his knowledge and leave.  He had thoughts too of suppressing Homer's poems: "For why,"
said he, "may not I do what Plato has done before me, who excluded him from his commonwealth?"
[440]  He was likewise very near banishing the writings and the busts of Virgil and Livy from
all libraries; censuring one of them as "a man of no genius and very little learning;" and
the other as "a verbose and careless historian."  He often talked of the lawyers as if he intended
to abolish their profession.  "By Hercules!" he would say, "I shall put it out of their power
to answer any questions in law, otherwise than by referring to me!"

XXXV.  He took from the noblest persons in the city the ancient marks of distinction used by
their families; as the collar from Torquatus [441]; from Cincinnatus the curl of (276) hair
[442]; and from Cneius Pompey, the surname of Great, belonging to that ancient family.  Ptolemy,
mentioned before, whom he invited from his kingdom, and received with great honours, he suddenly
put to death, for no other reason, but because he observed that upon entering the theatre,
at a public exhibition, he attracted the eyes of all the spectators, by the splendour of his
purple robe.  As often as he met with handsome men, who had fine heads of hair, he would order
the back of their heads to be shaved, to make them appear ridiculous.  There was one Esius
Proculus, the son of a centurion of the first rank, who, for his great stature and fine proportions,
was called the Colossal.  Him he ordered to be dragged from his seat in the arena, and matched
with a gladiator in light armour, and afterwards with another completely armed; and upon his
worsting them both, commanded him forthwith to be bound, to be led clothed in rags up and down
the streets of the city, and, after being exhibited in that plight to the women, to be then
butchered.  There was no man of so abject or mean condition, whose excellency in any kind he
did not envy.  The Rex Nemorensis [443] having many years enjoyed the honour of the priesthood,
he procured a still stronger antagonist to oppose him.  One Porius, who fought in a chariot
[444], having been victorious in an exhibition, and in his joy given freedom to a slave, was
applauded so vehemently, that Caligula rose in such haste from his seat, that, treading upon
the hem of his toga, he tumbled down the steps, full of indignation, (277) and crying out,
"A people who are masters of the world, pay greater respect to a gladiator for a trifle, than
to princes admitted amongst the gods, or to my own majesty here present amongst them."

XXXVI.  He never had the least regard either to the chastity of his own person, or that of
others.  He is said to have been inflamed with an unnatural passion for Marcus Lepidus Mnester,
an actor in pantomimes, and for certain hostages; and to have engaged with them in the practice
of mutual pollution.  Valerius Catullus, a young man of a consular family, bawled aloud in
public that he had been exhausted by him in that abominable act.  Besides his incest with his
sisters, and his notorious passion for Pyrallis, the prostitute, there was hardly any lady
of distinction with whom he did not make free.  He used commonly to invite them with their
husbands to supper, and as they passed by the couch on which he reclined at table, examine
them very closely, like those who traffic in slaves; and if any one from modesty held down
her face, he raised it up with his hand.  Afterwards, as often as he was in the humour, he
would quit the room, send for her he liked best, and in a short time return with marks of recent
disorder about them.  He would then commend or disparage her in the presence of the company,
recounting the charms or defects of her person and behaviour in private.  To some he sent a
divorce in the name of their absent husbands, and ordered it to be registered in the public acts.

XXXVII.  In the devices of his profuse expenditure, he surpassed all the prodigals that ever
lived; inventing a new kind of bath, with strange dishes and suppers, washing in precious unguents,
both warm and cold, drinking pearls of immense value dissolved in vinegar, and serving up for
his guests loaves and other victuals modelled in gold; often saying, "that a man ought either
to be a good economist or an emperor."  Besides, he scattered money to a prodigious amount
among the people, from the top of the Julian Basilica [445], during several days successively.
He built two ships with ten banks of oars, after the Liburnian fashion, the poops of which
blazed with jewels, and the sails were of various parti-colours. They were fitted up with ample
baths, galleries, and saloons, and supplied with a great variety of vines and other fruit-trees.
In these he would sail in the day-time along the coast of Campania, feasting (278) amidst dancing
and concerts of music.  In building his palaces and villas, there was nothing he desired to
effect so much, in defiance of all reason, as what was considered impossible.  Accordingly,
moles were formed in the deep and adverse sea [446], rocks of the hardest stone cut away, plains
raised to the height of mountains with a vast mass of earth, and the tops of mountains levelled
by digging; and all these were to be executed with incredible speed, for the least remissness
was a capital offence.  Not to mention particulars, he spent enormous sums, and the whole treasures
which had been amassed by Tiberius Caesar, amounting to two thousand seven hundred millions
of sesterces, within less than a year.

XXXVIII.  Having therefore quite exhausted these funds, and being in want of money, he had
recourse to plundering the people, by every mode of false accusation, confiscation, and taxation,
that could be invented.  He declared that no one had any right to the freedom of Rome, although
their ancestors had acquired it for themselves and their posterity, unless they were sons;
for that none beyond that degree ought to be considered as posterity.  When the grants of the
Divine Julius and Augustus were produced to him, he only said, that he was very sorry they
were obsolete and out of date.  He also charged all those with making false returns, who, after
the taking of the census, had by any means whatever increased their property.  He annulled
the wills of all who had been centurions of the first rank, as testimonies of their base ingratitude,
if from the beginning of Tiberius's reign they had not left either that prince or himself their
heir.  He also set aside the wills of all others, if any person only pretended to say, that
they designed at their death to leave Caesar their heir.  The public becoming terrified at
this proceeding, he was now appointed joint-heir with their friends, and in the case of parents
with their children, by persons unknown to him.  Those who lived any considerable time after
making such a will, he said, were only making game of him; and accordingly he sent many of
them poisoned cakes.  He used to try such causes himself; fixing previously the sum he proposed
to raise during the sitting, and, after he had secured it, quitting the tribunal.  Impatient
of the least delay, he condemned by a single sentence forty (279) persons, against whom there
were different charges; boasting to Caesonia when she awoke, "how much business he had dispatched
while she was taking her mid-day sleep."  He exposed to sale by auction, the remains of the
apparatus used in the public spectacles; and exacted such biddings, and raised the prices so
high, that some of the purchasers were ruined, and bled themselves to death.  There is a well-known
story told of Aponius Saturninus, who happening to fall asleep as he sat on a bench at the
sale, Caius called out to the auctioneer, not to overlook the praetorian personage who nodded
to him so often; and accordingly the salesman went on, pretending to take the nods for tokens
of assent, until thirteen gladiators were knocked down to him at the sum of nine millions of
sesterces [447], he being in total ignorance of what was doing.

XXXIX.  Having also sold in Gaul all the clothes, furniture, slaves, and even freedmen belonging
to his sisters, at prodigious prices, after their condemnation, he was so much delighted with
his gains, that he sent to Rome for all the furniture of the old palace [448]; pressing for
its conveyance all the carriages let to hire in the city, with the horses and mules belonging
to the bakers, so that they often wanted bread at Rome; and many who had suits at law in progress,
lost their causes, because they could not make their appearance in due time according to their
recognizances.  In the sale of this furniture, every artifice of fraud and imposition was employed.
Sometimes he would rail at the bidders for being niggardly, and ask them "if they were not
ashamed to be richer than he was?" at another, he would affect to be sorry that the property
of princes should be passing into the hands of private persons.  He had found out that a rich
provincial had given two hundred thousand sesterces to his chamberlains for an underhand invitation
to his table, and he was much pleased to find that honour valued at so high a rate.  The day
following, as the same person was sitting at the sale, he sent him some bauble, for which he
told him he must pay two hundred thousand sesterces, and "that he should sup with Caesar upon
his own invitation."

(280) XL.  He levied new taxes, and such as were never before known, at first by the publicans,
but afterwards, because their profit was enormous, by centurions and tribunes of the pretorian
guards; no description of property or persons being exempted from some kind of tax or other.
For all eatables brought into the city, a certain excise was exacted: for all law-suits or
trials in whatever court, the fortieth part of the sum in dispute; and such as were convicted
of compromising litigations, were made liable to a penalty.  Out of the daily wages of the
porters, he received an eighth, and from the gains of common prostitutes, what they received
for one favour granted.  There was a clause in the law, that all bawds who kept women for prostitution
or sale, should be liable to pay, and that marriage itself should not be exempted.

XLI.  These taxes being imposed, but the act by which they were levied never submitted to public
inspection, great grievances were experienced from the want of sufficient knowledge of the
law.  At length, on the urgent demands of the Roman people, he published the law, but it was
written in a very small hand, and posted up in a corner, so that no one could make a copy of
it.  To leave no sort of gain untried, he opened brothels in the Palatium, with a number of
cells, furnished suitably to the dignity of the place; in which married women and free-born
youths were ready for the reception of visitors.  He sent likewise his nomenclators about the
forums and courts, to invite people of all ages, the old as well as the young, to his brothel,
to come and satisfy their lusts; and he was ready to lend his customers money upon interest;
clerks attending to take down their names in public, as persons who contributed to the emperor's
revenue.  Another method of raising money, which he thought not below his notice, was gaming;
which, by the help of lying and perjury, he turned to considerable account.  Leaving once the
management of his play to his partner in the game, he stepped into the court, and observing
two rich Roman knights passing by, he ordered them immediately to be seized, and their estates
confiscated.  Then returning, in great glee, he boasted that he had never made a better throw
in his life.

XLII. I assure your honor that there was a of them
named Surre, Bizkaia, so forgotten how and where to eat, which a quota cortecilla took him
in the eye twice, and three did not was right on track Hand To Mouth.
  He likewise gave public notice, that he would receive new-year's
gifts on the calends of January following; and accordingly stood in the vestibule of his house,
to clutch the presents which people of all ranks threw down before him by handfuls and lapfuls.
At last, being seized with an invincible desire of feeling money, taking off his slippers,
he repeatedly walked over great heaps of gold coin spread upon the spacious floor, and then
laying himself down, rolled his whole body in gold over and over again.

XLIII.  Only once in his life did he take an active part in military affairs, and then not
from any set purpose, but during his journey to Mevania, to see the grove and river of Clitumnus
[449].  Being recommended to recruit a body of Batavians, who attended him, he resolved upon
an expedition into Germany.  Immediately he drew together several legions, and auxiliary forces
from all quarters, and made every where new levies with the utmost rigour.  Collecting supplies
of all kinds, such as never had been assembled upon the like occasion, he set forward on his
march, and pursued it sometimes with so much haste and precipitation, that the pretorian cohorts
were obliged, contrary to custom, to pack their standards on horses or mules, and so follow
him.  At other times, he would march so slow and luxuriously, that he was carried in a litter
by eight men; ordering the roads to be swept by the people of the neighbouring towns, and sprinkled
with water to lay the dust.

