THE MOON-VOYAGE.

CONTAINING "FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON," AND "ROUND THE MOON."

BY

JULES VERNE,

AUTHOR OF "TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA," "AMONG THE CANNIBALS," ETC.

ILLUSTRATED BY HENRY AUSTIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

"FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON."

I. THE GUN CLUB

II. PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION

III. EFFECT OF PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION

IV. ANSWER FROM THE CAMBRIDGE OBSERVATORY

V. THE ROMANCE OF THE MOON

VI. WHAT IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE AND WHAT IS NO LONGER ALLOWED TO BE BELIEVED IN THE UNITED
STATES

VII. THE HYMN OF THE CANNON-BALL

VIII. HISTORY OF THE CANNON

IX. THE QUESTION OF POWDERS

X. ONE ENEMY AGAINST TWENTY-FIVE MILLIONS OF FRIENDS

XI. FLORIDA AND TEXAS

XII. "URBI ET ORBI"

XIII. STONY HILL

XIV. PICKAXE AND TROWEL

XV. THE CEREMONY OF THE CASTING

XVI. THE COLUMBIAD

XVII. A TELEGRAM

XVIII. THE PASSENGER OF THE ATLANTA

XIX. A MEETING

XX. THRUST AND PARRY

XXI. HOW A FRENCHMAN SETTLES AN AFFAIR

XXII. A.D. 796.

This year died Archbishop Eanbald, on the fourth day before the ides
of August; and his body is deposited at York.

The same year also died Bishop Ceolwulf; and another Eanbald was
consecrated to the see of the former, on the nineteenth day before
the calends of September.

About the same time Cynewulf, King of Mercia, made inroads upon the
inhabitants of Kent as far as the marsh; and the Mercians seized Edbert
Pryn, their king, led him bound into Mercia, and suffered men to pick
out his eyes, and cut off his hands.

(32) And Ethelard, Archbishop of Canterbury, held a synod, wherein
he ratified and confirmed, by command of Pope Leo, all things concerning
God's monasteries that were fixed in Witgar's days, and in other king's
days, saying thus: "I Ethelard, the humble Archbishop of Canterbury,
with the unanimous concurrence of the whole synod, and of all the
congregations of all the minsters, to which in former days freedom
was given by faithful men, in God's name and by his terrible judgment
do decree, as I have command from Pope Leo, that henceforth none dare
to choose them lords from lewd men over God's inheritance; but, as
it is in the writ that the pope has given, or holy men have settled,
our fathers and our teachers, concerning holy minsters, so they continue
untainted without any resistance.

If there is any man that will not observe this decree of God, of
our pope, and of us, but overlooketh it, and holdeth it for nought,
let them know, that they shall give an account before the judgment-seat
of God.

And I Ethelard, archbishop, with twelve bishops, and with three and
twenty abbots, this same with the rood-token of Christ confirm and
fasten."

       

((A.D. 796. This year Offa, king of the Mercians, died on the fourth before the kalends of
August; he reigned forty years.))

A.D. 797.

This year the Romans cut out the tongue of Pope Leo, put out his
eyes, and drove him from his see; but soon after, by the assistance
of God, he could see and speak, and became pope as he was before.

Eanbald also received the pall on the sixth day before the ides of
September, and Bishop Ethelherd died on the third before the calends
of November.

A.D. 798.

This year a severe battle was fought in the Northumbrian territory,
during Lent, on the fourth day before the nones of April, at Whalley;
wherein Alric, the son of Herbert, was slain, and many others with
him.

A.D. 799.

This year Archbishop Ethelbert, and Cynbert, Bishop of Wessex, went
to Rome.

In the meantime Bishop Alfun died at Sudbury, and was buried at Dunwich.

After him Tidfrith was elected to the see; and Siric, king of the
East Saxons, went to Rome.

In this year the body of Witburga was found entire, and free from
decay, at Dercham, after a lapse of five and fifty years from the
period of her decease.

A.D. 800.

This year was the moon eclipsed, at eight in the evening, on the
seventeenth day before the calends of February; and soon after died
King Bertric and Alderman Worr.

Egbert succeeded to the West-Saxon kingdom; and the same day Ethelmund,
alderman of the Wiccians, rode over the Thames at Kempsford; where
he was met by Alderman Woxtan, with the men of Wiltshire, and a terrible
conflict ensued, in which both the commanders were slain, but the
men of Wiltshire obtained the victory.

((A.D. 801.

This year Beornmod was ordained Bishop of Rochester.))

A.D. 802.

This year was the moon eclipsed, at dawn, on the thirteenth day before
the calends of January; and Bernmod was consecrated Bishop of Rochester.

A.D.

       803.

This year died Hibbald, Bishop of Holy-island, on the twenty-fourth
of June, and Egbert was consecrated in his stead, on the thirteenth
of June following.

       Archbishop Ethelherd also died in Kent, and Wulfred was chosen archbishop
in his stead.

Abbot Forthred, in the course of the same year, departed this life.

A.D. 804. This year Archbishop Wulfred received his pall.

A.D. 805. This year died King Cuthred in Kent, and Abbess Colburga, and Alderman Herbert.
 But, to tell the truth, mere inventors of fifteen-barrelled rifles, revolvers,
or sword-pistols did not enjoy much consideration. Artillerymen were always preferred to them
in every circumstance.

"The estimation in which they are held," said one day a learned orator of the Gun Club, "is
in proportion to the size of their cannon, and in direct ratio to the square of distance attained
by their projectiles!"

A little more and it would have been Newton's law of gravitation applied to moral order.

Once the Gun Club founded, it can be easily imagined its effect upon the inventive genius of
the Americans. War-engines took colossal proportions, and projectiles launched beyond permitted
distances cut inoffensive pedestrians to pieces. All these inventions left the timid instruments
of European artillery far behind them. This may be estimated by the following figures:--

Formerly, "in the good old times," a thirty-six pounder, at a distance of three hundred feet,
would cut up thirty-six horses, attacked in flank, and sixty-eight men. The art was then in
its infancy. Projectiles have since made their way. The Rodman gun that sent a projectile weighing
half a ton a distance of seven miles could easily have cut up a hundred and fifty horses and
three hundred men. There was some talk at the Gun Club of making a solemn experiment with it.
But if the horses consented to play their part, the men unfortunately were wanting.

However that may be, the effect of these cannon was very deadly, and at each discharge the
combatants fell like ears before a scythe. After such projectiles what signified the famous
ball which, at Coutras, in 1587, disabled twenty-five men; and the one which, at Zorndorff,
in 1758, killed forty fantassins; and in 1742, Kesseldorf's Austrian cannon, of which every
shot levelled seventy enemies with the ground? What was the astonishing firing at Jena or Austerlitz,
which decided the fate of the battle? During the Federal war much more wonderful things had
been seen. At the battle of Gettysburg, a conical projectile thrown by a rifle-barrel cut up
a hundred and seventy-three Confederates, and at the passage of the Potomac a Rodman ball sent
two hundred and fifteen Southerners into an evidently better world. A formidable mortar must
also be mentioned, invented by J.T. Maston, a distinguished member and perpetual secretary
of the Gun Club, the result of which was far more deadly, seeing that, at its trial shot, it
killed three hundred and thirty-seven persons--by bursting, it is true.

What can be added to these figures, so eloquent in themselves? Nothing. So the following calculation
obtained by the statistician Pitcairn will be admitted without contestation: by dividing the
number of victims fallen under the projectiles by that of the members of the Gun Club, he found
that each one of them had killed, on his own account, an average of two thousand three hundred
and seventy-five men and a fraction.

By considering such a result it will be seen that the single preoccupation of this learned
society was the destruction of humanity philanthropically, and the perfecting of firearms considered
as instruments of civilisation. It was a company of Exterminating Angels, at bottom the best
fellows in the world.

It must be added that these Yankees, brave as they have ever proved themselves, did not confine
themselves to formulae, but sacrificed themselves to their theories. Amongst them might be
counted officers of every rank, those who had just made their début in the profession of arms,
and those who had grown old on their gun-carriage. Many whose names figured in the book of
honour of the Gun Club remained on the field of battle, and of those who came back the greater
part bore marks of their indisputable valour. Crutches, wooden legs, articulated arms, hands
with hooks, gutta-percha jaws, silver craniums, platinum noses, nothing was wanting to the
collection; and the above-mentioned Pitcairn likewise calculated that in the Gun Club there
was not quite one arm amongst every four persons, and only two legs amongst six.

But these valiant artillerymen paid little heed to such small matters, and felt justly proud
when the report of a battle stated the number of victims at tenfold the quantity of projectiles
expended.

One day, however, a sad and lamentable day, peace was signed by the survivors of the war, the
noise of firing gradually ceased, the mortars were silent, the howitzers were muzzled for long
enough, and the cannon, with muzzles depressed, were stored in the arsenals, the shots were
piled up in the parks, the bloody reminiscences were effaced, cotton shrubs grew magnificently
on the well-manured fields, mourning garments began to be worn-out, as well as sorrow, and
the Gun Club had nothing whatever to do.

Certain old hands, inveterate workers, still went on with their calculations in ballistics;
they still imagined gigantic bombs and unparalleled howitzers. But what was the use of vain
theories that could not be put in practice? So the saloons were deserted, the servants slept
in the antechambers, the newspapers grew mouldy on the tables, from dark corners issued sad
snores, and the members of the Gun Club, formerly so noisy, now reduced to silence by the disastrous
peace, slept the sleep of Platonic artillery!

"This is distressing," said brave Tom Hunter, whilst his wooden legs were carbonising at the
fireplace of the smoking-room. "Nothing to do! Nothing to look forward to! What a tiresome
existence! Where is the time when cannon awoke you every morning with its joyful reports?"

"That time is over," answered dandy Bilsby, trying to stretch the arms he had lost. "There
was some fun then! You invented an howitzer, and it was hardly cast before you ran to try it
on the enemy; then you went back to the camp with an encouragement from Sherman, or a shake
of the hands from MacClellan! But now the generals have gone back to their counters, and instead
of cannon-balls they expedite inoffensive cotton bales! Ah, by Saint Barb! the future of artillery
is lost to America!"

"Yes, Bilsby," cried Colonel Blomsberry, "it is too bad! One fine morning you leave your tranquil
occupations, you are drilled in the use of arms, you leave Baltimore for the battle-field,
you conduct yourself like a hero, and in two years, three years at the latest, you are obliged
to leave the fruit of so many fatigues, to go to sleep in deplorable idleness, and keep your
hands in your pockets."

The valiant colonel would have found it very difficult to give such a proof of his want of
occupation, though it was not the pockets that were wanting.

"And no war in prospect, then," said the famous J.T. Maston, scratching his gutta-percha cranium
with his steel hook; "there is not a cloud on the horizon now that there is so much to do in
the science of artillery! I myself finished this very morning a diagram with plan, basin, and
elevation of a mortar destined to change the laws of warfare!"

"Indeed!" replied Tom Hunter, thinking involuntarily of the Honourable J.T. Maston's last essay.

"Indeed!" answered Maston. "But what is the use of the good results of such studies and so
many difficulties conquered? It is mere waste of time. The people of the New World seem determined
to live in peace, and our bellicose Tribune has gone as far as to predict approaching catastrophes
due to the scandalous increase of population!"

"Yet, Maston," said Colonel Blomsberry, "they are always fighting in Europe to maintain the
principle of nationalities!"

"What of that?"

"Why, there might be something to do over there, and if they accepted our services--"

"What are you thinking of?" cried Bilsby. "Work at ballistics for the benefit of foreigners!"

"Perhaps that would be better than not doing it at all," answered the colonel.

"Doubtless," said J.T. Maston, "it would be better, but such an expedient cannot be thought of."

"Why so?" asked the colonel.

"Because their ideas of advancement would be contrary to all our American customs. Those folks
seem to think that you cannot be a general-in-chief without having served as second lieutenant,
which comes to the same as saying that no one can point a gun that has not cast one. Now that
is simply--"

"Absurd!" replied Tom Hunter, whittling the arms of his chair with his bowie-knife; "and as
things are so, there is nothing left for us but to plant tobacco or distil whale-oil!"

"What!" shouted J.T. Maston, "shall we not employ these last years of our existence in perfecting
firearms? Will not a fresh opportunity present itself to try the ranges of our projectiles?
Will the atmosphere be no longer illuminated by the lightning of our cannons? Won't some international
difficulty crop up that will allow us to declare war against some transatlantic power? Won't
France run down one of our steamers, or won't England, in defiance of the rights of nations,
hang up three or four of our countrymen?"

"No, Maston," answered Colonel Blomsberry; "no such luck! No, not one of those incidents will
happen; and if one did, it would be of no use to us. American sensitiveness is declining daily,
and we are going to the dogs!"

"Yes, we are growing quite humble," replied Bilsby.

"And we are humiliated!" answered Tom Hunter.

"All that is only too true," replied J.T. Maston, with fresh vehemence. "There are a thousand
reasons for fighting floating about, and still we don't fight! We economise legs and arms,
and that to the profit of folks that don't know what to do with them. Look here, without looking
any farther for a motive for war, did not North America formerly belong to the English?"

"Doubtless," answered Tom Hunter, angrily poking the fire with the end of his crutch.

"Well," replied J.T. Maston, "why should not England in its turn belong to the Americans?"

"It would be but justice," answered Colonel Blomsberry.

"Go and propose that to the President of the United States," cried J.T. Maston, "and see what
sort of a reception you would get."

"It would not be a bad reception," murmured Bilsby between the four teeth he had saved from battle.

"I'faith," cried J.T. Maston, "they need not count upon my vote in the next elections."

"Nor upon ours," answered with common accord these bellicose invalids.

"In the meantime," continued J.T. Maston, "and to conclude, if they do not furnish me with
the opportunity of trying my new mortar on a real battle-field, I shall send in my resignation
as member of the Gun Club, and I shall go and bury myself in the backwoods of Arkansas."

"We will follow you there," answered the interlocutors of the enterprising J.T. Maston.

Things had come to that pass, and the club, getting more excited, was menaced with approaching
dissolution, when an unexpected event came to prevent so regrettable a catastrophe.

The very day after the foregoing conversation each member of the club received a circular couched
in these terms:--

"Baltimore, October 3rd.

"The president of the Gun Club has the honour to inform his colleagues that at the meeting
on the 5th ultimo he will make them a communication of an extremely interesting nature. He
therefore begs that they, to the suspension of all other business, will attend, in accordance
with the present invitation,

"Their devoted colleague,

"IMPEY BARBICANE, P.G.C."

CHAPTER II.

PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION.

On the 5th of October, at 8 p.m., a dense crowd pressed into the saloons of the Gun Club, 21,
Union-square. All the members of the club residing at Baltimore had gone on the invitation
of their president. The express brought corresponding members by hundreds, and if the meeting-hall
had not been so large, the crowd of savants could not have found room in it; they overflowed
into the neighbouring rooms, down the passages, and even into the courtyards; there they ran
against the populace who were pressing against the doors, each trying to get into the front
rank, all eager to learn the important communication of President Barbicane, all pressing,
squeezing, crushing with that liberty of action peculiar to the masses brought up in the idea
of self-government.

That evening any stranger who might have chanced to be in Baltimore could not have obtained
a place at any price in the large hall; it was exclusively reserved to residing or corresponding
members; no one else was admitted; and the city magnates, common councillors, and select men
were compelled to mingle with their inferiors in order to catch stray news from the interior.

The immense hall presented a curious spectacle; it was marvellously adapted to the purpose
for which it was built. Lofty pillars formed of cannon, superposed upon huge mortars as a base,
supported the fine ironwork of the arches--real cast-iron lacework.

Trophies of blunderbusses, matchlocks, arquebuses, carbines, all sorts of ancient or modern
firearms, were picturesquely enlaced against the walls. The gas, in full flame, came out of
a thousand revolvers grouped in the form of lustres, whilst candlesticks of pistols, and candelabra
made of guns done up in sheaves, completed this display of light. This year was the moon eclipsed,
on the first of September; Erdwulf, king of the Northumbrians, was banished from his dominions;
and Eanbert, Bishop of Hexham, departed this life. This year also, on the next day before
the nones of June, a cross was seen in the moon, on a Wednesday, at the dawn; and afterwards, during
the same year, on the third day before the calends of September,
a wonderful circle was displayed about the sun.

A.D. 807. This year was the sun eclipsed, precisely at eleven in the morning, on the seventeenth day
before the calends of August.

A.D. 812. This year died the Emperor Charlemagne, after a reign of five and forty winters; and
Archbishop Wulfred, accompanied by Wigbert, Bishop of Wessex, undertook a journey to Rome.

A.D. 813. This year Archbishop Wulfred returned to his own see, with the blessing of Pope Leo; and
King Egbert spread devastation in Cornwall from east to west.

A.D. 814. This year died Leo, the noble and holy pope; and Stephen succeeded him in the papal government.

A.D.
816. This year died Pope Stephen; and Paschalis was consecrated pope after him. This same year
the school of the English nation at Rome was destroyed by fire.

A.D. 819. This year died Cenwulf, King of Mercia; and Ceolwulf (33) succeeded him. Alderman Eadbert
also departed this life.

A.D. 821. This year Ceolwulf was deprived of his kingdom.

A.D. 822.
This year two aldermen were slain, whose names were Burhelm and Mucca;
and a synod was holden at Cliff's-Hoo.

A.D. 823. This year a battle
was fought between the Welsh in Cornwall and the people of Devonshire,
at Camelford; and in the course of the same year Egbert, king of the
West-Saxons, and Bernwulf, King of Mercia, fought a battle at Wilton,
in which Egbert gained the victory, but there was great slaughter
on both sides. Then sent he his son Ethelwulf into Kent, with a large
detachment from the main body of the army, accompanied by his bishop,
Elstan, and his alderman, Wulfherd; who drove Baldred, the king, northward
over the Thames. Whereupon the men of Kent immediately submitted to
him; as did also the inhabitants of Surrey, and Sussex, and Essex;
who had been unlawfully kept from their allegiance by his relatives.

Barbicane had made a great fortune as a timber-merchant; named director of artillery during
the war, he showed himself fertile in inventions; enterprising in his ideas, he contributed
powerfully to the progress of ballistics, gave an immense impetus to experimental researches.

He was a person of average height, having, by a rare exception in the Gun Club, all his limbs
intact. His strongly-marked features seemed to be drawn by square and rule, and if it be true
that in order to guess the instincts of a man one must look at his profile, Barbicane seen
thus offered the most certain indications of energy, audacity, and sang-froid.

At that moment he remained motionless in his chair, mute, absorbed, with an inward look sheltered
under his tall hat, a cylinder of black silk, which seems screwed down upon the skull of American
men.

His colleagues talked noisily around him without disturbing him; they questioned one another,
launched into the field of suppositions, examined their president, and tried, but in vain,
to make out the x of his imperturbable physiognomy.

Just as eight o'clock struck from the fulminating clock of the large hall, Barbicane, as if
moved by a spring, jumped up; a general silence ensued, and the orator, in a slightly emphatic
tone, spoke as follows:--

"Brave colleagues,--It is some time since an unfruitful peace plunged the members of the Gun
Club into deplorable inactivity. After a period of some years, so full of incidents, we have
been obliged to abandon our works and stop short on the road of progress. I do not fear to
proclaim aloud that any war which would put arms in our hands again would be welcome--"

"Yes, war!" cried impetuous J.T. Maston.

"Hear, hear!" was heard on every side.

"But war," said Barbicane, "war is impossible under actual circumstances, and, whatever my
honourable interrupter may hope, long years will elapse before our cannons thunder on a field
of battle. We must, therefore, make up our minds to it, and seek in another order of ideas
food for the activity by which we are devoured."

The assembly felt that its president was coming to the delicate point; it redoubled its attention.

"A few months ago, my brave colleagues," continued Barbicane, "I asked myself if, whilst still
remaining in our speciality, we could not undertake some grand experiment worthy of the nineteenth
century, and if the progress of ballistics would not allow us to execute it with success. I
have therefore sought, worked, calculated, and the conviction has resulted from my studies
that we must succeed in an enterprise that would seem impracticable in any other country. This
project, elaborated at length, will form the subject of my communication; it is worthy of you,
worthy of the Gun Club's past history, and cannot fail to make a noise in the world!"

"Much noise?" cried a passionate artilleryman.

"Much noise in the true sense of the word," answered Barbicane.

"Don't interrupt!" repeated several voices.

"I therefore beg of you, my brave colleagues," resumed the president, "to grant me all your
attention."

A shudder ran through the assembly. Barbicane, having with a rapid gesture firmly fixed his
hat on his head, continued his speech in a calm tone:--

"There is not one of you, brave colleagues, who has not seen the moon, or, at least, heard
of It. Do not be astonished if I wish to speak to you about the Queen of Night. It is, perhaps,
our lot to be the Columbuses of this unknown world. Understand me, and second me as much as
you can, I will lead you to its conquest, and its name shall be joined to those of the thirty-six
States that form the grand country of the Union!"

"Hurrah for the moon!" cried the Gun Club with one voice.

"The moon has been much studied," resumed Barbicane; "its mass, density, weight, volume, constitution,
movements, distance, the part it plays in the solar world, are all perfectly determined; selenographic
maps have been drawn with a perfection that equals, if it does not surpass, those of terrestrial
maps; photography has given to our satellite proofs of incomparable beauty--in a word, all
that the sciences of mathematics, astronomy, geology, and optics can teach is known about the
moon; but until now no direct communication with it has ever been established."

A violent movement of interest and surprise welcomed this sentence of the orator.

"Allow me," he resumed, "to recall to you in few words how certain ardent minds, embarked upon
imaginary journeys, pretended to have penetrated the secrets of our satellite. In the seventeenth
century a certain David Fabricius boasted of having seen the inhabitants of the moon with his
own eyes. In 1649 a Frenchman, Jean Baudoin, published his Journey to the Moon by Dominique
Gonzales, Spanish Adventurer. At the same epoch Cyrano de Bergerac published the celebrated
expedition that had so much success in France. Later on, another Frenchman (that nation took
a great deal of notice of the moon), named Fontenelle, wrote his Plurality of Worlds, a masterpiece
of his time; but science in its progress crushes even masterpieces! About 1835, a pamphlet,
translated from the New York American, related that Sir John Herschel, sent to the Cape of
Good Hope, there to make astronomical observations, had, by means of a telescope, perfected
by interior lighting, brought the moon to within a distance of eighty yards. Then he distinctly
perceived caverns in which lived hippopotami, green mountains with golden borders, sheep with
ivory horns, white deer, and inhabitants with membraneous wings like those of bats. This treatise,
the work of an American named Locke, had a very great success. But it was soon found out that
it was a scientific mystification, and Frenchmen were the first to laugh at it."

"Laugh at an American!" cried J.T. Maston; "but that's a casus belli!"

"Be comforted, my worthy friend; before Frenchmen laughed they were completely taken in by
our countryman. To terminate this rapid history, I may add that a certain Hans Pfaal, of Rotterdam,
went up in a balloon filled with a gas made from azote, thirty-seven times lighter than hydrogen,
and reached the moon after a journey of nineteen days. This journey, like the preceding attempts,
was purely imaginary, but it was the work of a popular American writer of a strange and contemplative
genius. I have named Edgar Poe!"

"Hurrah for Edgar Poe!" cried the assembly, electrified by the words of the president.

"I have now come to an end of these attempts which I may call purely literary, and quite insufficient
to establish any serious communications with the Queen of Night. However, I ought to add that
some practical minds tried to put themselves into serious communication with her. Some years
ago a German mathematician proposed to send a commission of savants to the steppes of Siberia.
There, on the vast plains, immense geometrical figures were to be traced by means of luminous
reflectors; amongst others, the square of the hypothenuse, vulgarly called the 'Ass's Bridge.'
'Any intelligent being,' said the mathematician, 'ought to understand the scientific destination
of that figure. The Selenites (inhabitants of the moon), if they exist, will answer by a similar
figure, and, communication once established, it will be easy to create an alphabet that will
allow us to hold converse with the inhabitants of the moon.' Thus spoke the German mathematician,
but his project was not put into execution, and until now no direct communication has existed
between the earth and her satellite. But it was reserved to the practical genius of Americans
to put itself into communication with the sidereal world. The means of doing so are simple,
easy, certain, unfailing, and will make the subject of my proposition."

A hubbub and tempest of exclamations welcomed these words. There was not one of the audience
who was not dominated and carried away by the words of the orator. 

A.D. 490.

This year Ella and Cissa besieged the city of Andred, and slew all
that were therein; nor was one Briten left there afterwards.

A.D. 495. This year came two leaders into Britain, Cerdic and Cynric his son, with five ships,
at a place that is called Cerdic's-ore. And they fought with the Welsh the same day. Then he died,
and his son Cynric succeeded to the government, and held it six and twenty winters. Then he
died; and Ceawlin, his son, succeeded, who reigned seventeen years.

Then he died; and Ceol succeeded to the government, and reigned five years. When he died, Ceolwulf,
his brother, succeeded, and reigned seventeen years. Their kin goeth
to Cerdic. Then succeeded Cynebils, Ceolwulf's brother's son, to the
kingdom; and reigned one and thirty winters. In fact, the thunder came,
but a thunder of applause, cries, and clamour which made the meeting-hall shake again. The
president tried to speak; he could not. It was only at the end of ten minutes that he succeeded
in making himself heard.

"Let me finish," he resumed coldly. "I have looked at the question in all its aspects, and
from my indisputable calculations it results that any projectile, hurled at an initial speed
of twelve thousand yards a second, and directed at the moon, must necessarily reach her. I
have, therefore, the honour of proposing to you, my worthy colleagues, the attempting of this
little experiment."

CHAPTER III.

EFFECT OF PRESIDENT BARBICANE'S COMMUNICATION.

It is impossible to depict the effect produced by the last words of the honourable president.
What cries! what vociferations! This year came Anlaf Curran to the land of the Northumbrians.

A.D. 951. This year died Elfeah, Bishop of Winchester, on St. Gregory's
mass day.

A.D. 952. This year the Northumbrians expelled King Anlaf,
and received Eric the son of Harold. All the weapons in this artillery museum
going off at once would not have more violently agitated the waves of sound. That is not surprising;
there are cannoneers nearly as noisy as their cannons.

Barbicane remained calm amidst these enthusiastic clamours; perhaps he again wished to address
some words to his colleagues, for his gestures asked for silence, and his fulminating bell
exhausted itself in violent detonations; it was not even heard. He was soon dragged from his
chair, carried in triumph, and from the hands of his faithful comrades he passed into those
of the no less excited crowd.

