You see the same contrast in cottage life. The lot of poverty is sweetened by taste. It selects
the healthiest, openest neighbourhood, where the air is pure and the streets are clean. You
see, at a glance, by the sanded doorstep, and the window-panes without a speck,--perhaps blooming
roses or geraniums shining through them,--that the tenant within, however poor, knows the art
of making the best of his lot. How different from the foul cottage-dwellings you see elsewhere;
with the dirty children playing in the gutters; the slattern-like women lounging by the door-cheek;
and the air of sullen poverty that seems to pervade the place. And yet the weekly income in
the former home may be no greater, perhaps even less, than in that of the other.

How is it, that of two men, working in the same field or in the same shop, one is merry as
a lark,--always cheerful, well-clad, and as clean as his work will allow him to be,--comes
out on Sunday mornings in his best suit, to go to church with his family,--is never without
a penny in his purse, and has something besides in the savings bank,--is a reader of books
and a subscriber to a newspaper, besides taking in some literary journal for family reading;
whilst the other man, with equal or even superior weekly wages, comes to work in the mornings
sour and sad,--is always full of grumbling,--is badly clad and badly shod,--is never seen out
of his house on Sundays till about midday, when he appears in his shirt-sleeves, his face unwashed,
his hair unkempt, his eyes bleared and bloodshot,--his children left to run about the gutters,
with no one apparently to care for them,--is always at his last coin, except on Saturday night,
and then he has a long score of borrowings to repay,--belongs to no club, has nothing saved,
but lives literally from hand to mouth,--reads none, thinks none, but only toils, eats, drinks,
and sleeps;--why is it that there is so remarkable a difference between these two men?

Simply for this reason,--that the one has the intelligence and the art to extract joy and happiness
from life,--to be happy himself, and to make those about him happy; whereas the other has not
cultivated his intelligence, and knows nothing whatever of the art of either making himself
or his family happy. With the one, life is a scene of loving, helping, and sympathizing,--of
carefulness, forethought, and calculation--of reflection, action, and duty;--with the other,
it is only a rough scramble for meat and drink; duty is not thought of, reflection is banished,
prudent forethought is never for a moment entertained.

But look to the result; the former is respected by his fellow-workmen and beloved by his family,--he
is an example of well-being and well-doing to all who are within reach of his influence; whereas
the other is as unreflective and miserable, as nature will allow him to be,--he is shunned
by good men,--his family are afraid at the sound of his footsteps, his wife perhaps trembling
at his approach,--he dies without leaving any regrets behind him, except, it may be, on the
part of his family, who are left to be maintained by the charity of the public, or by the pittance
doled out by the overseers.

For these reasons, it is worth every man's while to study the important Art of living happily.
Even the poorest man may by this means extract an increased amount of joy and blessing from
life. The world need not be "a vale of tears," unless we ourselves will it to be so. We have
the command, to a great extent, over our own lot. At all events, our mind is our own possession;
we can cherish happy thoughts there; we can regulate and control our tempers and dispositions
to a considerable extent; we can educate ourselves, and bring out the better part of our nature,
which in most men is allowed to sleep a deep sleep; we can read good books, cherish pure thoughts,
and lead lives of peace, temperance, and virtue, so as to secure the respect of good men, and
transmit the blessing of a faithful example to our successors.

The Art of Living is best exhibited in the Home. The first condition of a happy home, where
good influences prevail over bad ones, is Comfort. The discovery that every move they had made had
been watched by the lynx-eyed McAllister had instilled in them a profound respect.

To bring things to a head and to justify their actions Ferguson and he had undertaken to prove
their case against Nickleby by exposing him and his methods to the gentlemen who had last entered
the room. These gentlemen had been placed where they could listen to the evidence for themselves
and, to make doubly sure, a dictaphone had been installed and an official court stenographer had
taken down the whole thing.

It was almost incredible that a criminal of this man's type had been able to engineer himself
into a place of trust in an institution of such influence as the Interprovincial Loan & Savings
Company, to play fast and loose with its credit as he had done, and to bamboozle its directorate.
The fact that he had been made to convict himself must plead excuse for the subterfuge in which
they had been forced to indulge. It had been a most disagreeable
experience and the Honorable Milton Waring was glad that it was over.

"I have only this to say, further, gentlemen," he concluded. "It is no sinecure to hold public
office and administer a public trust and I am moved to protest most
earnestly against the public tendency to discredit politics and the
men who are devoting their energies--frequently at great personal
inconvenience and loss--to the government of the country.

There are those who cannot seem to admit that it is possible for a man to enter the political
arena and remain as honest and sincere in public life as he has been as a private citizen.
Such a condition of the public mind is to be deplored, even as the past events upon which the condition
is based are to be deplored.

If the people look upon government as a joke, the joke is on them; for their government is what they
make of it or permit it to be.

"It is my belief that below all government, like the sure-rock foundation
of a worth-while edifice, must lie the spirit of fair dealing and
a law-abiding citizenship.

Let the people determine that corruption in politics will spell political
ruin instead of personal aggrandizement and see how swiftly every
political yacht will trim its sails. A poor man's
home, moderately supplied with the necessaries of life, presided over by a cleanly, frugal
housewife, may contain all the elements of comfortable living. Comfortlessness is for the most
part caused, not so much by the absence of sufficient means, as by the absence of the requisite
knowledge of domestic management.

Comfort, it must be admitted, is in a great measure relative. What is comfort to one man, would
be misery to another. Even the commonest mechanic of this day would consider it miserable to
live after the style of the nobles a few centuries ago; to sleep on straw beds, and live in
rooms littered with rushes. William the Conqueror had neither a shirt to his back, nor a pane
of glass to his windows. Queen Elizabeth was one of the first to wear silk stockings. The Queens
before her were stockingless.

Comfort depends as much on persons as on "things." It is out of the character and temper of
those who govern homes, that the feeling of comfort arises, much more than out of handsome
furniture, heated rooms, or household luxuries and conveniences.

Comfortable people are kindly-tempered. Good temper may be set down as an invariable condition
of comfort. There must be peace, mutual forbearance, mutual help, and a disposition to make
the best of everything. "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred
therewith."

Comfortable people are persons of common sense, discretion, prudence, and economy. They have
a natural affinity for honesty and justice, goodness and truth. They do not run into debt,--for
that is a species of dishonesty. They live within their means, and lay by something for a rainy
day. They provide for the things of their own household,--yet they are not wanting in hospitality
and benevolence on fitting occasions. And what they do, is done without ostentation.

Comfortable people do everything in order. They are systematic, steady, sober, industrious.
They dress comfortably. They adapt themselves to the season,--neither shivering in winter,
nor perspiring in summer. They do not toil after a "fashionable appearance." They expend more
on warm stockings than on gold rings; and prefer healthy, good bedding, to gaudy window-curtains.
Their chairs are solid, not gimcrack. They will bear sitting upon, though they may not be ornamental.

The organization of the home depends for the most part upon woman. She is necessarily the manager
of every family and household. How much, therefore, must depend upon her intelligent co-operation!
Man's life revolves round woman. She is the sun of his social system. She is the queen of domestic
life. The comfort of every home mainly depends upon her,--upon her character, her temper, her
power of organization, and her business management. A man may be economical; but unless there
be economy at home, his frugality will be comparatively useless. "A man cannot thrive," the
proverb says, "unless his wife let him."

House-thrift is homely, but beneficent. Though unseen of the world, it makes many people happy.
It works upon individuals; and by elevating them, it elevates society itself. It is in fact
a receipt of infallible efficacy, for conferring the greatest possible happiness upon the greatest
possible number. Without it legislation, benevolence, and philanthropy are mere palliatives,
sometimes worse than useless, because they hold out hopes which are for the most part disappointed.

How happy does a man go forth to his labour or his business, and how doubly happy does he return
from it, when he knows that his means are carefully husbanded and wisely applied by a judicious
and well-managing wife. Such a woman is not only a power in her own house, but her example
goes forth amongst her neighbours, and she stands before them as a model and a pattern. The
habits of her children are formed after her habits: her actual life becomes the model after
which they unconsciously mould themselves; for example always speaks more eloquently than words:
it is instruction in action--wisdom at work.

First amongst woman's qualities is the intelligent use of her hands and fingers. Every one
knows how useful, how indispensable to the comfort of a household, is the tidy, managing, handy
woman. Pestalozzi, with his usual sagacity, has observed, that half the education of a woman
comes through her fingers. There are wisdom and virtue at her finger-ends. But intellect must
also accompany thrift: they must go hand in hand. A woman must not only be clever with her
fingers, but possessed of the power of organizing household work.

There must be Method. The late Sir Arthur Helps observed, that "as women are at present educated,
they are for the most part thoroughly deficient in method. But this surely might be remedied
by training. To take a very humble and simple instance. Why is it that a man-cook is always
better than a woman-cook? Simply because a man is more methodical in his arrangements, and
relies more upon his weights and measures. An eminent physician told me that he thought women
were absolutely deficient in the appreciation of time. But this I hold to be merely one instance
of their general want of accuracy, for which there are easy remedies: that is, easy if begun
early enough."

Accordingly, to manage a household efficiently, there must be Method. Without this, work cannot
be got through satisfactorily either in offices, workshops, or households. By arranging work
properly, by doing everything at the right time, with a view to the economy of labour, a large
amount of business can be accomplished. Muddle flies before method; and hugger-mugger disappears.
There is also a method in spending--in laying out money,--which is as valuable to the housewife,
as method is in accomplishing her work. Money slips through the fingers of some people like
quicksilver. We have already seen that many men are spendthrifts. But many women are the same.
At least they do not know how to expend their husband's earnings to the best advantage. You
observe things very much out of place--frills and ruffles and ill-darned stockings--fine bonnets
and clouted shoes--silk gowns and dirty petticoats; while the husband goes about ragged and
torn, with scarcely a clean thing about him.

Industry is of course essential. This is the soul of business; but, without method, industry
will be less productive. Industry may sometimes look like confusion. But the methodical and
industrious woman gets through her work in a quiet, steady style,--without fuss, or noise,
or dust-clouds.

Prudence is another important household qualification. Prudence comes from cultivated judgment:
it means practical wisdom.

Punctuality is another eminently household qualification. How many grumblings would be avoided
in domestic life, by a little more attention being paid to this virtue. Late breakfasts and
late dinners,--"too late" for church and market,--"cleanings" out of time, and "washings" protracted
till midnight,--bills put off with a "call again to-morrow,"--engagements and promises unfulfilled,--what
a host of little nuisances spring to mind, at thought of the unpunctual housewife! The unpunctual
woman, like the unpunctual man, becomes disliked, because she consumes our time, interferes
with our plans, causes uneasy feelings, and virtually tells us that we are not of sufficient
importance to cause her to be more punctual. To the business man, time is money, and to the
business woman it is more,--it is peace, comfort, and domestic prosperity.

Perseverance is another good household habit. Lay down a good plan, and adhere to it. Do not
be turned from it without a sufficient reason. Follow it diligently and faithfully, and it
will yield fruits in good season. If the plan be a prudent one, based on practical wisdom,
a ll things will gravitate towards it, and a mutual dependence will gradually be established
among all the parts of the domestic system.

We might furnish numerous practical illustrations of the truth of these remarks, but our space
is nearly filled up, and we must leave the reader to supply them from his or her own experience.

There are many other illustrations which might be adduced, of the art of making life happy.
The management of the temper is an art full of beneficent results. By kindness, cheerfulness,
and forbearance, we can be happy almost at will; and at the same time spread happiness about
us on every side. We can encourage happy thoughts in ourselves and others. We can be sober
in habit. What can a wife and her children think of an intemperate husband and father? We can
be sober in language, and shun cursing and swearing--the most useless, unmeaning, and brutal
of vulgarities. Nothing can be so silly and unmeaning--not to say shocking, repulsive, and
sinful--as the oaths so common in the mouths of vulgar swearers. They are profanation without
purpose--impiety without provocation--blasphemy without excuse.

This leads us to remark, in passing, that in this country we are not sufficiently instructed
in the Art of Good Manners. We are rather gruff, and sometimes unapproachable. Manners do not
make the man, as the proverb alleges; but manners make the man much more agreeable. A man may
be noble in his heart, true in his dealings, virtuous in his conduct, and yet unmannerly. Suavity
of disposition and gentleness of manners give the finish to the true gentleman.

By Good Manners we do not mean Etiquette. This is only a conventional set of rules adopted
by what is called "good society;" and many of the rules of etiquette are of the essence of
rudeness. Etiquette does not permit genteel people to recognize in the streets a man with a
shabby coat though he be their brother. Etiquette is a liar in its "not at home,"--ordered
to be told by servants to callers at inconvenient seasons.

Good manners include many requisites; but they chiefly consist in politeness, courtesy, and
kindness. They cannot be taught by rule, but they may be taught by example.

Manner is the ornament of action; indeed a good action, without a good manner of doing it,
is stripped of half its value. A poor fellow gets into difficulties, and solicits help of a
friend. He obtains it, but it is with a "There-take that; but I don't like lending." The help
is given with a kind of kick, and is scarcely accepted as a favour. The manner of the giving
long rankles in the mind of the acceptor. Thus good manners mean kind manners,--benevolence
being the preponderating element in all kinds of pleasant intercourse between human beings.

A story is told of a poor soldier having one day called at the shop of a hairdresser, who was
busy with his customers, and asked relief,--stating that he had stayed beyond his leave of
absence, and unless he could get a lift on the coach, fatigue and severe punishment awaited
him. The hairdresser listened to his story respectfully, and gave him a guinea. "God bless
you, sir!" exclaimed the soldier, astonished at the amount. "How can I repay you? I have nothing
in the world but this"--pulling out a dirty piece of paper from his pocket; "it is a receipt
for making blacking; it is the best that was ever seen; many a half-guinea I have had for it
from the officers, and many bottles I have sold; may you be able to get something for it to
repay you for your kindness to the poor soldier." Oddly enough, that dirty piece of paper proved
worth half a million of money to the hairdresser. It was no less than the receipt for the famous
Day and Martin's blacking; the hairdresser being the late wealthy Mr. Day, whose manufactory
is one of the notabilities of the metropolis.

Good manners have been supposed to be a peculiar mark of gentility, and that the individual
exhibiting them has been born in some upper class of society. But the poorest classes may exhibit
good manners towards each other, as well as the richest. One may be polite and kind towards
others, without a penny in the purse. Politeness goes very far; yet it costs nothing. It is
the cheapest of commodities. But we want to be taught good manners, as well as other things.
Some happy natures are "to the manner born." But the bulk of men need to be taught manners,
and this can only be efficiently done in youth.

We have said that working men might study good manners with advantage. Why should they not
respect themselves and each other? It is by their demeanour towards each other--in other words,
by their manners--that self-respect and mutual respect are indicated. We have been struck by
the habitual politeness of even the poorest classes on the Continent. The working man, in respecting
his fellow, respects himself and his order. There is kindness in the act of recognition, as
well as in the manner in which it is denoted.

We might learn much from the French people in this matter. They are not only polite to each
other, but they have a greater respect for property. Some may be disposed to doubt this, after
the recent destruction of buildings in Paris. But the Communists must be regarded as altogether
exceptional people; and to understand the French character, we must look to the body of the
population scattered throughout France. There we find property much more respected by the people
than amongst ourselves. Even the beggar respects the fruit by the roadside, although there
is nobody to protect it. The reason of this is, that France is a nation of small proprietors,--that
property is much more generally diffused and exposed,--and parents of even the lowest class
educate their children in carefulness of and fidelity to the property of others.

This respect for property is also accompanied with that respect for the feelings of others,
which constitutes what is called Good Manners. This is carefully inculcated in the children
of all ranks in France. They are very rarely rude. They are civil to strangers. They are civil
to each other. Mr. Laing, in his "Notes of a Traveller," makes these remarks: "This deference
to the feelings of others in all that we do is a moral habit of great value when it is generally
diffused, and enters into the home training of every family. It is an education both of the
parent and child in morals, carried on through the medium of external manners.... It is a fine
distinction of the French national character, and of social economy, that practical morality
is more generally taught through manners, among and by the people themselves, than in any country
in Europe."[1]

[Footnote 1: SAMUEL LAING--Notes of Traveller, on the Social and Political State of France,
Prussia, Switzerland, Italy, and other Parts of Europe, p. 55.]

The same kindly feeling might be observed throughout the entire social intercourse of working
men with each other. There is not a moment in their lives in which the opportunity does not
occur for exhibiting good manners--in the workshop, in the street, and at home. Provided there
be a wish to please others by kind looks and ways, the habit of combining good manners with
every action will soon be formed. It is not merely the pleasure a man gives to others by being
kind to them: he receives tenfold more pleasure himself. The man who gets up and offers his
chair to a woman, or to an old man--trivial though the act may seem,--is rewarded by his own
heart, and a thrill of pleasure runs through him the moment he has performed the kindness.

Workpeople need to practise good manners towards each other the more, because they are under
the necessity of constantly living with each other and amongst each other. They are in constant
contact with their fellow-workmen, whereas the richer classes need not mix with men unless
they choose, and then they can select whom they like. The working man's happiness depends much
more upon the kind looks, words, and acts of those immediately about him, than the rich man's
does. It is so in the workshop, and it is the same at home. There the workman cannot retire
into his study, but must sit amongst his family, by the side of his wife, with his children
about him. And he must either live kindly with them--performing kind and obliging acts towards
his family,--or he must see, suffer, and endure the intolerable misery of reciprocal unkindness.

Admitted that there are difficulties in the way of working men cultivating the art of good
manners--that their circumstances are often very limited, and their position unfavourable,
yet no man is so poor but that he can be civil and kind, if he choose; and to be civil and
kind is the very essence of good manners. Even in the most adverse circumstances a man may
try to do his best. If he do--if he speak and act courteously and kindly to all,--the result
will be so satisfactory, so self-rewarding, that he cannot but be stimulated to persevere in
the same course. He will diffuse pleasure about him in the home, make friends of his work-fellows,
and be regarded with increased kindness and respect by every right-minded employer.

Then, besides the general pleasure arising from the exercise of Good Manners, there is a great
deal of healthful and innocent pleasure to be derived from amusements of various kinds. One
cannot be always working, eating, and sleeping. There must be time for relaxation--time for
mental pleasures--time for bodily exercise.

There is a profound meaning in the word Amusement; much more than most people are disposed
to admit. In fact, amusement is an important part of education. It is a mistake to suppose
that the boy or the man who plays at some outdoor game is wasting his time. Amusement of any
kind is not wasting time, but economizing life.

Relax and exercise frequently, if you would enjoy good health. If you do not relax, and take
no exercise, the results will soon appear in bodily ailments, which always accompany sedentary
occupations. "The students," says Lord Derby, "who think they have not time for bodily exercise,
will sooner or later find time for illness."

There are people in the world who would, if they had the power, hang the heavens about with
crape; throw a shroud over the beautiful and life-giving bosom of the planet; pick the bright
stars from the sky; veil the sun with clouds; pluck the silver moon from her place in the firmament;
shut up our gardens and fields, and all the flowers with which they are bedecked; and doom
the world to an atmosphere of gloom and cheerlessness. There is no reason nor morality in this,
and there is still less religion.

A benevolent Creator has endowed man with an eminent capacity for enjoyment,--has set him in
a fair and lovely world, surrounded him with things good and beautiful,--and given him the
disposition to love, to sympathize, to help, to produce, to enjoy; and thus to become an honourable
and a happy being, bringing God's work to perfection, and enjoying the divine creation in the
midst of which he lives.

Make a man happy, and his actions will be happy too; doom him to dismal thoughts and miserable
circumstances, and you will make him gloomy, discontented, morose, and probably vicious. Hence
coarseness and crime are almost invariably found amongst those who have never been accustomed
to be cheerful, whose hearts have been shut against the purifying influences of a happy communion
with nature, or an enlightened and cheerful intercourse with man.

Man has a strong natural appetite for relaxation and amusement, and, like all other natural
appetites, it has been implanted for a wise purpose. It cannot be repressed, but will break
out in one form or another. Any well-directed attempt to promote an innocent amusement, is
worth a dozen sermons against pernicious ones. If we do not provide the opportunity for enjoying
wholesome pleasures, men will certainly find out vicious ones for themselves. Sydney Smith
truly said, "In order to attack vice with effect, we must set up something better in its place."

Temperance reformers have not sufficiently considered how much the drinking habits of the country
are the consequences of gross tastes, and of the too limited opportunities which exist in this
country for obtaining access to amusements of an innocent and improving tendency. It was a lonesome,
insignificant place with nothing to indicate its selection as a bobbin for threads of destiny. The sun
was just coming into the sky above the low-lying hills to the east when the President's special
steamed into the siding. The Germans were at one time the drunkenest of nations; they are now amongst
the soberest. "As drunken as a German boor," was a common proverb. How have they been weaned
from drink? Principally by Education and Music.

Music has a most humanizing effect. The cultivation of the art has a most favourable influence
upon public morals. It furnishes a source of pleasure in every family. It gives home a new
attraction. It makes social intercourse more cheerful. Father Mathew followed up his Temperance
movement by a Singing movement. He promoted the establishment of musical clubs all over Ireland:
for he felt that, as he had taken the people's whisky from them, he must give them some wholesome
stimulus in its stead. He gave them Music. Singing classes were established, to refine the
taste, soften the manners, and humanize the mass of the Irish people. But we fear that the
example set by Father Mathew has already been forgotten.

"What a fulness of enjoyment," says Channing, "has our Creator placed within our reach, by
surrounding us with an atmosphere which may be shaped into sweet sounds! And yet this goodness
is almost lost upon us, through want of culture of the organ by which this provision is to
be enjoyed."

How much would the general cultivation of the gift of music improve us as a people! Children
ought to learn it in schools, as they do in Germany. The voice of music would then be heard
in every household. Our old English glees would no longer be forgotten. Men and women might
sing in the intervals of their work,--as the Germans do in going to and coming from their wars.
The work would not be worse done, because it was done amidst music and cheerfulness. The breath
of society would be sweetened, and pleasure would be linked with labour.

Why not have some elegance in even the humblest home? We must of course have cleanliness, which
is the special elegance of the poor. But why not have pleasant and delightful things to look
upon? There is no reason why the humbler classes should not surround themselves with the evidences
of beauty and comfort in all their shapes, and thus do homage alike to the gifts of God and
the labours of man. The taste for the beautiful is one of the best and most useful endowments.
It is one of the handmaids of civilization. Beauty and elegance do not necessarily belong to
the homes of the rich. They are, or ought to be, all-pervading. Beauty in all things,--in nature,
in art, in science, in literature, in social and domestic life.

How beautiful and yet how cheap are flowers. Not exotics,--but what are called common flowers.
A rose, for instance, is among the most beautiful of the smiles of nature. The "laughing flowers,"
exclaims the poet! But there is more than gaiety in blooming flowers, though it takes a wise
man to see the beauty, the love, and the adaptation, of which they are full.

What should we think of one who had invented flowers; supposing that, before him, flowers were
unknown? Would he not be regarded as the opener-up of a paradise of new delight? should we
not hail the inventor as a genius, as a god? And yet these lovely offsprings of the earth have
been speaking to man from the first dawn of his existence until now, telling him of the goodness
and wisdom of the Creative Power, which bade the earth bring forth, not only that which was
useful as food,--but also flowers, the bright consummate flowers, to clothe it in beauty and joy! 

They would hit southwest for Lake Superior, and once there he could find his way across to
the Michigan side by night and so away.
Podmore laced his boots rapidly and went through his grip for one
or two articles he thought he might need. They are like a sweet draught of
enjoyment, coming as messengers from the country, and seeming to say, "Come and see the place
where we grow, and let your heart be glad in our presence."

