"Listen. I was afraid to tell you before--ashamed--but I told my people. It's three years ago.
I was seventeen. It was just after we had become engaged. My people were then strong in the
faith, as you know. One morning after you had left for the East, Brigham Young and Heber Kimball
came to our house for me. They said the Prophet had long known me by sight, and wished to talk
with me. Would I go with them to visit him and he would bless and counsel me? Of course I was
flattered. I put on my prettiest frock and fetchingest bonnet and set off with them, after
mamma had said yes. On the way they kept asking me if I was willing to do all the Prophet required.
I said I was sure of it, thinking they meant to be good and worshipful. Then they would ask
if I was ready to take counsel, and they said, 'Many things are revealed unto us in these last
days that the world would scoff at,' but that it had been given to them to know all the mysteries
of the Kingdom. Then they said, 'You will see Joseph and he will tell you what you are to do.'"

He was listening with a serious, confident eagerness, as if he knew she could say nothing to
dim the Prophet's lustre.

"When we reached the building where Joseph's store was, they led me up-stairs to a small room
and sent down to the store for the Prophet. When he came up they introduced me and left me
alone in the little room with him. Their actions had seemed queer to me, but I remembered that
this man had talked face to face with God, so I tried to feel better. But all at once he stood
before me and asked me to be his wife. Think of it! I was so frightened! I dared not say no,
he looked at me so--I can't tell you how; but I said it would not be lawful. He said, 'Yes,
Prudence, I have had a revelation from God that it is lawful and right for a man to have as
many wives as he wants--for as it was in the days of Abraham, so it shall be in these days.
Accept me and I shall take you straight to the celestial Kingdom. Brother Brigham will marry
us here, right now, and you can go home to-night and keep it secret from your parents if you
like.' Then I said, 'But I am betrothed to Joel Rae, the son of Giles Rae, who is away on mission.'
'I know that,' he said--'I sent him away, and anyway you will be safer to marry me. You will
then be absolutely sure of your celestial reward, for in the next world, you know, I am to
have powers, thrones, and dominions, while Brother Joel is very young and has not been tried
in the Kingdom. The diameter over all is about 230 feet.

The impression produced upon the members of the Austrian Society by their visit to Erdberg
was altogether most favorable; and not only did the inspection of
the large gasholder justify every expectation, but the visitors were
convinced that all the buildings were in excellent condition and well
adapted for their purpose, that the machinery was of the latest and
most approved type, and that the management was in experienced hands.

 Come,' he said, 'nothing ventured,
nothing gained. Let me call Brother Brigham to seal us, and you shall be a star in my crown
for ever.'

"Then I broke down and cried, for I was so afraid, and he put his arms around me, but I pushed
away, and after awhile I coaxed him to give me until the next Sabbath to think it over, promising
on my life to say not one word to any person. I never let him see me alone again, you may be
sure, and at last when other awful tales were told about him here, of wickedness and his drunkenness--he
told in the pulpit that he had been drunk, and that he did it to keep them from worshipping
him as a God--I saw he was a bad, common man, and I told my people everything, and soon my
father was denounced for an apostate. Now, sir, what do you say?"

When she finished he was silent for a time. Then he spoke, very gently, but with undaunted
firmness.

"Prudence, dearest, I have told you that this doctrine is new to me. I do not yet know its
justification. But that I shall see it to be sanctified after they have taught me, this I know
as certainly as I know that Joseph Smith dug up the golden plates of Mormon and Moroni on the
hill of Cumorah when the angel of the Lord moved him. It will be sanctified for those who choose
it, I mean. You know I could never choose it for myself. But as for others, I must not question.
I know only too well that eternal salvation for me depends upon my accepting manfully and unquestioningly
the authority of the temple priesthood."

"But I know Joseph was not a good man--and they tell such absurd stories about the miracles
the Elders pretend to work."

"I believe with all my heart Joseph was good; but even if not--we have never pretended that
he was anything more than a prophet of God. And was not Moses a murderer when God called him
to be a prophet? And as for miracles, all religions have them--why not ours? Your people were
Methodists before Joseph baptised them. Didn't Wesley work miracles? Didn't a cloud temper
the sun in answer to his prayer? Wasn't his horse cured of a lameness by his faith? Are those
stories absurd? My father himself saw Joseph cast a devil out of Newell Knight."

"And this awful journey into a horrid desert. Why must you go? Surely there are other ways
of salvation." She hesitated a moment. "I have been told that going to heaven is like going
to mill. If your wheat is good, the miller will never ask which way you came."

"Child, child, some one has tampered with you."

She retorted quickly.

"He did not tamper, he has never sought to--he was all kindness."

She stopped, her short upper lip holding its incautious mate a prisoner. She blushed furiously
under the sudden blaze of his eyes.

"So it's true, what Seth Wright hinted at? To think that you, of all people--my sweetheart--gone
over--won over by a cursed mobocrat--a fiend with the blood of our people wet on his hands!
Listen, Prue; I'm going into the desert. Even though you beg me to stay, you must have known--perhaps
you hoped--that I would go. There are many reasons why I must. For one, there are six hundred
and forty poor hunted wretches over there on the river bank, sick, cold, wet, starving, but
enduring it all to the death for their faith in Joseph Smith. They could have kept their comfortable
homes here and their substance, simply by renouncing him--they are all voluntary exiles--they
have only to say 'I do not believe Joseph Smith was a prophet of God,' and these same Gentiles
will receive them with open arms, give them clothing, food, and shelter, put them again in
possession of their own. But they are lying out over there, fever-stricken, starving, chilled,
all because they will not deny their faith. Shall I be a craven, then, who have scarcely ever
wanted for food or shelter, and probably shall not? Of course you don't love me or you couldn't
ask me to do that. Those faithful wretched ones are waiting over there for me to guide them
on toward a spot that will probably be still more desolate. They could find their way, almost,
by the trail of graves we left last spring, but they need my strength and my spirit, and I
am going. I am going, too, for my own salvation. I would suffer anything for you, but by going
I may save us both. Listen, child; God is going to make a short work on earth. We shall both
see the end of this reign of sin. It is well if you take wheat to the mill, but what if you
fetch the miller chaff instead?"

She made a little protesting move with her hands, and would have spoken, but he was not done.

"Now, listen further. You heard my father tell how I have seen this people driven and persecuted
since I was a boy. That, if nothing else, would take me away from these accursed States and
their mobs. Hatred of them has been bred into my marrow. I know them for the most part to be
unregenerate and doomed, but even if it were otherwise--if they had the true light--none the
less would I be glad to go, because of what they have done to us and to me and to mine. Oh,
in the night I hear such cries of butchered mothers with their babes, and see the flames of
the little cabins--hear the shots and the ribaldry and the cursings. My father spoke to you
of Haun's mill,--that massacre back in Missouri. That was eight years ago. I was a boy of sixteen
and my sister was a year older. She had been left in my care while father and mother went on
to Far West. You have seen the portrait of her that mother has. You know how delicately flower-like
her beauty was, how like a lily, with a purity and an innocence to disarm any villainy. Thirty
families had halted at the mill the day before, the mob checking their advance at that point.
All was quiet until about four in the afternoon. We were camped on either side of Shoal Creek.
Children were playing freely about while their mothers and fathers worked at the little affairs
of a pilgrimage like that. Most of them had then been three months on the road, enduring incredible
hardships for the sake of their religion--for him you believe to be a bad, common man. But
they felt secure now because one of the militia captains, officious like your captain here,
had given them assurance the day before that they would be protected from all harm. I was helping
Brother Joseph Young to repair his wagon when I glanced up to the opposite side of Shoal Creek
and saw a large company of armed and mounted men coming toward our peaceful group at full speed.
One of our number, seeing that they were many and that we were unarmed, ran out and cried,
'Peace!' but they came upon us and fired their volley. Men, women, and little children fell
under it. Those surviving fled to the blacksmith's shop for shelter--huddling inside like frightened
sheep. But there were wide cracks between the logs, and up to these the mob went, putting their
guns through to do their work at leisure. Then the plundering began--plundering and worse."

He stopped, trembling, and she put out her hand to him in sympathy. When he had regained control
of himself, he continued.

"At the first volley I had hurried sister to a place of concealment in the underbrush, and
she, hearing them search for the survivors after the shooting was over, thought we were discovered,
and sprang up to run further. One of them saw her and shot. She fell half-fainting with a bullet
through her arm, and then half a dozen of them gathered quickly about her. I ran to them, screaming
and striking out with my fists, but the devil was in them, and she, poor blossom, lay there
helpless, calling 'Boy, boy, boy!' as she had always called me since we were babies together.
Must I tell you the rest?--must I tell you--how those devils--"

"Don't, don't! Oh, no!"

"I thought I must die! They held me there--"

He had gripped one of her wrists until she cried out in pain and he released it.

"But the sight must have given me a man's strength, for my struggles became so troublesome
that one of them--I have always been grateful for it--clubbed his musket and dealt me a blow
that left me senseless. It was dark when I came to, but I lay there until morning, unable to
do more than crawl. When the light came I found the poor little sister there near where they
had dragged us both, and she was alive. Can you realise how awful that was--that she had lived
through it? God be thanked, she died before the day was out.

"After that the other mutilated bodies, the plundered wagons, all seemed less horrible to me.
My heart had been seared over. They had killed twenty of the Saints, and the most of them we
hurried to throw into a well, fearful that the soldiers of Governor Boggs would come back at
any moment to strip and hack them. O God! and now you have gone over to one of them!"

"Joel,--dear, dear Joel!--indeed I pity and sympathise--and care for--but I cannot go--even
after all you say. And don't you see it will always be so! My father says the priesthood will
always be in trouble if it sets itself above the United States. Dear Joel, I can't go, indeed
I can't go!"

He spoke more softly now.

"Thank God I don't realise it yet--I mean, that we must part. You tell me so and I hear you
and my mind knows, but my heart hasn't sensed it yet--I can feel it now going stupidly along
singing its old happy song of hope and gladness, while all this is going on here outside. But
soon the big hurt will come. Oh, Prue--Prue, girl!--can't you think what it will mean to me?
Don't you know how I shall sicken for the sight of you, and my ears will listen for you! Prudence,
Prue, darling--yet I must not be womanish! I have a big work to do. I have known it with a
new clearness since that radiance rested above my head last night. The truth burns in me like
a fire. Your going can't take that from me. It must be I was not meant to have you. With you
perhaps I could not have had a heart single to God's work. He permitted me to love you so I
could be tried and proved."

He looked at her fondly, and she could see striving and trembling in his eyes a great desire
to crush her in his arms, yet he fought it down, and continued more calmly.

"But indeed I must be favoured more than common, to deserve that so great a hurt be put upon
me, and I shall not be found wanting. I shall never wed any woman but you, though, dear. If
not you, never any other."

He stood up.

"I must go in to them now. There must be work to do against the start to-morrow."

"Joel!"

"May the Lord deafen my ears to you, darling!" and squaring his shoulders resolutely away from
her, he left her on the seat and went in.

The old man looked up from his Bible as his son entered.

"It's sore sad, laddie, we can't have the temple for your sealing-vows."

"Prudence will not be sealed to me, father." He spoke dazedly, as if another like the morning's
blow had been dealt him. "I--I am already sealed to the Spirit for time and eternity."

"Was it Prudence's doings?" asked his mother, quickly.

"Yes; she has left the church with her people."

The long-faced, narrow-browed old man raised one hand solemnly.

"Then let her be banished from Israel and not numbered in the books of the offspring of Abraham!
And let her be delivered over to the buffetings of Satan in the flesh!"

CHAPTER V.

Giles Rae Beautifies His Inheritance

By eight o'clock the next morning, out under a cloudy sky, the Raes were ready and eager for
their start to the new Jerusalem. Even the sick woman's face wore a kind of soft and faded
radiance in the excitement of going. On her mattress, she had been tenderly installed in one
of the two covered wagons that carried their household goods. The wagon in which she lay was
to be taken across the river by Seth Wright,--for the moment no Wild Ram of the Mountains,
but a soft-cooing dove of peace. Permission had been granted him by Brockman to recross the
river on some needful errands; and, having once proved the extreme sensitiveness, not to say
irritability, of those in temporary command, he was now resolved to give as little éclat as
possible to certain superior aspects of his own sanctity. He spoke low and deferentially, and
his mien was that of a modest, retiring man who secretly thought ill of himself.

He mounted the wagon in which the sick woman lay, sat well back under the bowed cover, clucked
low to the horses, and drove off toward the ferry. If discreet behaviour on his part could
ensure it there would be no conflict provoked with superior numbers; with numbers, moreover,
composed of violent-tempered and unprincipled persecutors who were already acting with but
the merest shadow of legal authority.

On the seat of the second wagon, whip in hand, was perched Giles Rae, his coat buttoned warmly
to the chin. He was slight and feeble to the eye, yet he had been fired to new life by the
certainty that now they were to leave the territory of the persecuting Gentiles for a land
to be the Saints' very own. His son stood at the wheel, giving him final directions. At the
gate was Prudence Corson, gowned for travel, reticule in hand, her prettiness shadowed, under
the scoop of her bonnet, the toe of one trim little boot meditatively rolling a pebble over
the ground.

"Drive slowly, Daddy. Likely I shall overtake you before you reach the ferry. I want but a
word yet with Prudence; though"--he glanced over at the bowed head of the girl--"no matter
if I linger a little, since Brother Seth will cross first and we must wait until the boat comes
back. Some of our people will be at the ferry to look after you,--and be careful to have no
words with any of the mob--no matter what insult they may offer. You're feeling strong, aren't
you?"

"Ay, laddie, that I am! Strong as an ox! The very thought of being free out of this Babylon
has exalted me in spirit and body. Think of it, boy! Soon we shall be even beyond the limits
of the United States--in a foreign land out there to the west, where these bloodthirsty ones
can no longer reach us. Thank God they're like all snakes--they can't jump beyond their own
length!"

He leaned out of the wagon to shake a bloodless, trembling fist toward the temple where the
soldiers had made their barracks.

"Now let great and grievous judgments, desolations, by famine, sword, and pestilence come upon
you, generation of vipers!"

He cracked the whip, the horses took their load at his cheery call, and as the wagon rolled
away they heard him singing:--

  "Lo, the Gentile chain is broken!
   Freedom's banner waves on high!"

They watched him until the wagon swung around into the street that fell away to the ferry.
Then they faced each other, and he stepped to her side as she leaned lightly on the gate.

"Prue, dear," he said, softly, "it's going hard with me. God must indeed have a great work
reserved for me to try me with such a sacrifice--so much pain where I could least endure it.
I prayed all the night to be kept firm, for there are two ways open--one right and one wrong;
but I cannot sell my soul so early. That's why I wanted to say the last good-bye out here.
I was afraid to say it in there--I am so weak for you, Prue--I ache so for you in all this
trouble--why, if I could feel your hands in my hair, I'd laugh at it all--I'm so weak for you,
dearest."

She tossed her yellow head ever so slightly, and turned the scoop of her bonnet a little away
from his pain-lighted face.

"I am not complimented, though--you care more for your religion than for me."

He looked at her hungrily.

"No, you are wrong there--I don't separate you at all--I couldn't--you and my religion are
one--but, if I must, I can love you in spirit as I worship my God in spirit--"

"If it will satisfy you, very well!"

"My reward will come--I shall do a great work, I shall have a Witness from the sky. Who am
I that I should have thought to win a crown without taking up a cross?"

"I am sorry for you."

"Oh, Prue, there must be a way to save the souls of such as you, even in their blindness. Would
God make a flower like you, only to let it be lost? There must be a way. I shall pray until
I force it from the secret heavens."

"My soul will be very well, sir!" she retorted, with a distinct trace of asperity. "I am not
a heathen, I'd thank you to remember--and when I'm a wife I shall be my husband's only wife--"

He winced in acutest pain.

"You have no right to taunt me so. Else you can't know what you have meant to me. Oh, you were
all the world, child--you, of your own dear self--you would have been all the wives in the
world to me--there are many, many of you, and all in a heavenly one--"

"Oh, forgive me, dearest," she cried, and put out a little gloved hand to comfort him. "I know,
I know--all the sweetness and goodness of your love, believe me. See, I have kept always by
me the little Bible you gave me on my birthday--I have treasured it, and I know it has made
me a better girl, because it makes me always think of your goodness--but I couldn't have gone
there, Joel--and it does seem as if you need not have gone--and that marrying is so odious--" 

As in the case of the latter, a space is left in the axis of the cartridges. These rockets are
fired from a trough placed at an inclination of fifty or sixty degrees. Those of three inches
illuminate the earth for a distance of 900 yards. I know He will
do it--I tell you there is the spirit of some strange, awful strength in me, which tells me
to ask what I will and it shall be given--to seek to do anything, how great or hard soever,
and a giant's, a god's strength will rest in me. And so I know you will come. You will always
think of me so,--waiting for you--somehow, somewhere. Every day you must think it, at any idle
moment when I come to your mind; every night when you waken in the dark and silence, you must
think, 'Wherever he is, he is waiting for me, perhaps awake as I am now, praying, with a power
that will surely draw me.' You will come somehow. Perhaps, when I reach winter quarters, you
will have changed your mind. One never knows how God may fashion these little providences.
But He will bring you safe to me out of that Gentile perdition. Remember, child, God has set
his hand in these last days to save the human family from the ruins of the fall, and some way,
He alone knows how, you will come to me and find me waiting."

"As if you needed to wait for me when I am here now ready for you, willing to be taken!"

"Don't, don't, dear! There are two of me now, and one can't stand the pain. There is a man
in me, sworn to do a man's work like a man, and duty to God and the priesthood has big chains
around his heart dragging it across the river. But, low, now--there is a little, forlorn boy
in me, too--a poor, crying, whimpering, babyish little boy, who dreamed of you and longed for
you and was promised you, and who will never get well of losing you. Oh, I know it well enough--his
tears will never dry, his heart will always have a big hurt in it--and your face will always
be so fresh and clear in it!"

He put his hands on her shoulders and looked down into the face under the bonnet.

"Let me make sure I shall lose no look of you, from little tilted chin, and lips of scarlet
thread, and little teeth like grains of rice, and eyes into which I used to wander and wonder
so far--"

She looked past him and stepped back.

"Captain Girnway is coming for me--yonder, away down the street. He takes me to Carthage."

His face hardened as he looked over his shoulder.

"I shall never wed any woman but you. Can you feel as deeply as that? Will you wed no man but me?"

She fluttered the cherry ribbons on the bonnet and fixed a stray curl in front of one ear.

"Have you a right to ask that? I might wait a time for you to come back--to your senses and
to me, but--"

"Good-bye, darling!".

"What, will you go that way--not kiss me? He is still two blocks away."

"I am so weak for you, sweet--the little boy in me is crying for you, but he must not have
what he wants. What he wants would leave his heart rebellious and not perfect with the Lord.
It's best not," he continued, with an effort at a smile and in a steadier tone. "It would mean
so much to me--oh, so very much to me--and so very little to you--and that's no real kiss.
I'd rather remember none of that kind--and don't think I was churlish--it's only because the
little boy--I will go after my father now, and God bless you!"

He turned away. A few paces on he met Captain Girnway, jaunty, debonair, smiling, handsome
in his brass-buttoned uniform of the Carthage Grays.

"I have just left the ferry, Mr. Rae. The wagon with your mother has gone over. The other had
not yet come down. Some of the men appear to be a little rough this morning. Your people are
apt to provoke them by being too outspoken, but I left special orders for the good treatment
of yourself and outfit."

With a half-smothered "thank you," he passed on, not trusting himself to say more to one who
was not only the enemy of his people, but bent, seemingly, on deluding a young woman to the
loss of her soul. He heard their voices in cheerful greeting, but did not turn back. With eyes
to the front and shoulders squared he kept stiffly on his way through the silent, deserted
streets to the ferry.

Fifteen minutes' walk brought him to the now busy waterside. The ferry, a flat boat propelled
by long oars, was landing when he came into view, and he saw his father's wagon driven on.
He sped down the hill, pushed through the crowd of soldiers standing about, and hurried forward
on the boat to let the old man know he had come. But on the seat was another than his father.
He recognised the man, and called to him.

"What are you doing there, Brother Keaton? Where's my father?"

The man had shrunk back under the wagon-cover, having seemingly been frightened by the soldiers.

"I've taken your father's place, Brother Rae."

"Did he cross with Brother Wright?"

"Yes--he--" The man hesitated. Then came an interruption from the shore.

"Come, clear the gangway there so we can load! Here are some more of the damned rats we've
hunted out of their holes!"

The speaker made a half-playful lunge with his bayonet at a gaunt, yellow-faced spectre of
a man who staggered on to the boat with a child in his arms wrapped in a tattered blue quilt.
A gust of the chilly wind picked his shapeless, loose-fitting hat off as he leaped to avoid
the bayonet-point, and his head was seen to be shaven. The crowd on the bank laughed loud at
his clumsiness and at his grotesque head. Joel Rae ran to help him forward on the boat.

"Thank you, Brother--I'm just up from the fever-bed--they shaved my head for it--and so I lost
my hat--thank you--here we shall be warm if only the sun comes out."

Joel went back to help on others who came, a feeble, bedraggled dozen or so that had clung
despairingly to their only shelter until they were driven out.

"You can stay here in safety, you know, if you renounce Joseph Smith and his works--they will
give you food and shelter." He repeated it to each little group of the dispirited wretches
as they staggered past him, but they replied staunchly by word or look, and one man, in the
throes of a chill, swung his cap and uttered a feeble "Hurrah for the new Zion!"

When they were all on with their meagre belongings, he called again to the man in the wagon.

"Brother Keaton, my father went across, did he?"

Several of the men on shore answered him.

"Yes"--"Old white-whiskered death's-head went over the river"--"Over here"--"A sassy old codger
he was"--"He got his needings, too"--"Got his needings--"

They cast off the line and the oars began to dip.

"And you'll get your needings, too, if you come back, remember that! That's the last of you,
and we'll have no more vermin like you. Curiously enough, it was little Peter himself who gave
him the cue for his now historic farewell as he stood on the sinking
deck of the Lusitania.

At the end of one of the acts in "Peter Pan" the little boy says:

To
die will be an awfully big adventure. They had
looked at one another queerly when they answered his questions. He went forward to the wagon again.

"Brother Keaton, you're sure my father is all right?"

