'Ten miles above Winona we come to Fountain City, nestling sweetly at the feet of cliffs that
lift their awful fronts, Jovelike, toward the blue depths of heaven, bathing them in virgin
atmospheres that have known no other contact save that of angels' wings.

'And next we glide through silver waters, amid lovely and stupendous aspects of nature that
attune our hearts to adoring admiration, about twelve miles, and strike Mount Vernon, six hundred
feet high, with romantic ruins of a once first-class hotel perched far among the cloud shadows
that mottle its dizzy heights--sole remnant of once-flourishing Mount Vernon, town of early
days, now desolate and utterly deserted.

'And so we move on.  Past Chimney Rock we fly--noble shaft of six hundred feet; then just before
landing at Minnieska our attention is attracted by a most striking promontory rising over five
hundred feet-- the ideal mountain pyramid.  Its conic shape--thickly-wooded surface girding
its sides, and its apex like that of a cone, cause the spectator to wonder at nature's workings.
From its dizzy heights superb views of the forests, streams, bluffs, hills and dales below
and beyond for miles are brought within its focus.  What grander river scenery can be conceived,
as we gaze upon this enchanting landscape, from the uppermost point of these bluffs upon the
valleys below? The primeval wildness and awful loneliness of these sublime creations of nature
and nature's God, excite feelings of unbounded admiration, and the recollection of which can
never be effaced from the memory, as we view them in any direction.

'Next we have the Lion's Head and the Lioness's Head, carved by nature's hand, to adorn and
dominate the beauteous stream; and then anon the river widens, and a most charming and magnificent
view of the valley before us suddenly bursts upon our vision; rugged hills, clad with verdant
forests from summit to base, level prairie lands, holding in their lap the beautiful Wabasha,
City of the Healing Waters, puissant foe of Bright's disease, and that grandest conception
of nature's works, incomparable Lake Pepin--these constitute a picture whereon the tourist's
eye may gaze uncounted hours, with rapture unappeased and unappeasable.

'And so we glide along; in due time encountering those majestic domes, the mighty Sugar Loaf,
and the sublime Maiden's Rock--which latter, romantic superstition has invested with a voice;
and oft-times as the birch canoe glides near, at twilight, the dusky paddler fancies he hears
the soft sweet music of the long-departed Winona, darling of Indian song and story.

'Then Frontenac looms upon our vision, delightful resort of jaded summer tourists; then progressive
Red Wing; and Diamond Bluff, impressive and preponderous in its lone sublimity; then Prescott
and the St. Croix; and anon we see bursting upon us the domes and steeples of St. Paul, giant
young chief of the North, marching with seven-league stride in the van of progress, banner-bearer
of the highest and newest civilization, carving his beneficent way with the tomahawk of commercial
enterprise, sounding the warwhoop of Christian culture, tearing off the reeking scalp of sloth
and superstition to plant there the steam-plow and the school-house--ever in his front stretch
arid lawlessness, ignorance, crime, despair; ever in his wake bloom the jail, the gallows,
and the pulpit; and ever--'

'Have you ever traveled with a panorama?'

'I have formerly served in that capacity.'

My suspicion was confirmed.

'Do you still travel with it?'

'No, she is laid up till the fall season opens.  I am helping now to work up the materials
for a Tourist's Guide which the St. Louis and St. Paul Packet Company are going to issue this
summer for the benefit of travelers who go by that line.'

'When you were talking of Maiden's Rock, you spoke of the long-departed Winona, darling of
Indian song and story. Is she the maiden of the rock?--and are the two connected by legend?'

'Yes, and a very tragic and painful one.  Perhaps the most celebrated, as well as the most
pathetic, of all the legends of the Mississippi.'

We asked him to tell it.  He dropped out of his conversational vein and back into his lecture-gait
without an effort, and rolled on as follows--

'A little distance above Lake City is a famous point known as Maiden's Rock, which is not only
a picturesque spot, but is full of romantic interest from the event which gave it its name,
Not many years ago this locality was a favorite resort for the Sioux Indians on account of
the fine fishing and hunting to be had there, and large numbers of them were always to be found
in this locality. Among the families which used to resort here, was one belonging to the tribe
of Wabasha.  We-no-na (first-born) was the name of a maiden who had plighted her troth to a
lover belonging to the same band.  But her stern parents had promised her hand to another,
a famous warrior, and insisted on her wedding him. The day was fixed by her parents, to her
great grief. She appeared to accede to the proposal and accompany them to the rock, for the
purpose of gathering flowers for the feast. On reaching the rock, We-no-na ran to its summit
and standing on its edge upbraided her parents who were below, for their cruelty, and then
singing a death-dirge, threw herself from the precipice and dashed them in pieces on the rock
below.'

'Dashed who in pieces--her parents?'

'Yes.'

'Well, it certainly was a tragic business, as you say. And moreover, there is a startling kind
of dramatic surprise about it which I was not looking for.  It is a distinct improvement upon
the threadbare form of Indian legend. Orders for the inspection of the commando organisation in
the Free State had been given before Mr. Fischer had left Bloemfontein; and on his return from
Pretoria he responded to Mr. Schreiner's urgent and continued representations
of the desirability of inducing President Krüger to accept Mr. Chamberlain's
offer, by a request to be informed of any probable movements of British
forces.

Mr. Schreiner's reply, that the Free State must ask for such information from the High Commissioner,
caused him to apply to Mr. Hofmeyr for an explanation of the Cape Premier's attitude. The inquiry
produced a notable analysis of Mr. Schreiner's position.

[Footnote 130: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

"Hofmeyr says," Dr. Te Water telegraphed, "that whatever the Premier's feelings or relations to
our people are, he is at the same time a minister of the Crown.

As such he has on him claims in two directions, of which he is acquitting himself to the best
of his ability. He has no control over the movement of troops. You had better come and have
a quiet talk. Meanwhile the Free State should surely refrain from an aggressive step."[131]

[Footnote
131: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

This well-meant advice was somewhat belated. In reply to a telegram from President Steyn, asking
whether it was true that the Imperial Government was going to send 1,000 men to Bethulie Bridge,
Lord Milner replied on August 16th, that, "as a matter of fact, no despatch of Imperial troops
to the borders of the Orange Free State was in contemplation." But he added that in view of the much
more substantial reports of the "importation of large quantities of munitions of war" into that
State and "the general arming of the burghers," it "would not have been unnatural, if such military
preparations had been responded to by a defensive movement" on the part of the British Government.[132]
Indeed, the circumstances which had led to Mr. Fischer's co-operation in Mr. Hofmeyr's "mediation"
were rapidly disappearing.
  He said that this
tale, and most of the others in the book, were current among the Indians along this part of
the Mississippi when he first came here; and that the contributors to Schoolcraft's book had
got them directly from Indian lips, and had written them down with strict exactness, and without
embellishments of their own.

I have found the book.  The lecturer was right.  There are several legends in it which confirm
what he said.  I will offer two of them-- 'The Undying Head,' and 'Peboan and Seegwun, an Allegory
of the Seasons.' The latter is used in Hiawatha; but it is worth reading in the original form,
if only that one may see how effective a genuine poem can be without the helps and graces of
poetic measure and rhythm--

PEBOAN AND SEEGWUN.

'The Undying Head' is a rather long tale, but it makes up in weird conceits, fairy-tale prodigies,
variety of incident, and energy of movement, for what it lacks in brevity.{footnote [See appendix
D.]}

Chapter 60 Speculations and Conclusions

WE reached St. Paul, at the head of navigation of the Mississippi, and there our voyage of
two thousand miles from New Orleans ended.  It is about a ten-day trip by steamer.  It can
probably be done quicker by rail. I judge so because I know that one may go by rail from St.
Louis to Hannibal--a distance of at least a hundred and twenty miles--in seven hours. This
is better than walking; unless one is in a hurry.

The season being far advanced when we were in New Orleans, the roses and magnolia blossoms
were falling; but here in St. Paul it was the snow, In New Orleans we had caught an occasional
withering breath from over a crater, apparently; here in St. Paul we caught a frequent benumbing
one from over a glacier, apparently.

But I wander from my theme.  St. Paul is a wonderful town. It is put together in solid blocks
of honest brick and stone, and has the air of intending to stay.  Its post-office was established
thirty-six years ago; and by and by, when the postmaster received a letter, he carried it to
Washington, horseback, to inquire what was to be done with it.  Such is the legend.  Two frame
houses were built that year, and several persons were added to the population. A recent number
of the leading St. Paul paper, the 'Pioneer Press,' gives some statistics which furnish a vivid
contrast to that old state of things, to wit:  Population, autumn of the present year (1882),
71,000; number of letters handled, first half of the year, 1,209,387; number of houses built
during three- quarters of the year, 989; their cost, $3,186,000. The increase of letters over
the corresponding six months of last year was fifty per cent. Last year the new buildings added
to the city cost above $4,500,000. St. Paul's strength lies in her commerce--I mean his commerce.
He is a manufacturing city, of course--all the cities of that region are--but he is peculiarly
strong in the matter of commerce. Last year his jobbing trade amounted to upwards of $52,000,000.

He has a custom-house, and is building a costly capitol to replace the one recently burned--for
he is the capital of the State. He has churches without end; and not the cheap poor kind, but
the kind that the rich Protestant puts up, the kind that the poor Irish 'hired-girl' delights
to erect.  What a passion for building majestic churches the Irish hired-girl has. It is a
fine thing for our architecture but too often we enjoy her stately fanes without giving her
a grateful thought. In fact, instead of reflecting that 'every brick and every stone in this
beautiful edifice represents an ache or a pain, and a handful of sweat, and hours of heavy
fatigue, contributed by the back and forehead and bones of poverty,' it is our habit to forget
these things entirely, and merely glorify the mighty temple itself, without vouchsafing one
praiseful thought to its humble builder, whose rich heart and withered purse it symbolizes.

This is a land of libraries and schools.  St. Paul has three public libraries, and they contain,
in the aggregate, some forty thousand books. He has one hundred and sixteen school-houses,
and pays out more than seventy thousand dollars a year in teachers' salaries.

There is an unusually fine railway station; so large is it, in fact, that it seemed somewhat
overdone, in the matter of size, at first; but at the end of a few months it was perceived
that the mistake was distinctly the other way. The error is to be corrected.

The town stands on high ground; it is about seven hundred feet above the sea level.  It is
so high that a wide view of river and lowland is offered from its streets.

It is a very wonderful town indeed, and is not finished yet. All the streets are obstructed
with building material, and this is being compacted into houses as fast as possible, to make
room for more--for other people are anxious to build, as soon as they can get the use of the
streets to pile up their bricks and stuff in.

How solemn and beautiful is the thought, that the earliest pioneer of civilization, the van-leader
of civilization, is never the steamboat, never the railroad, never the newspaper, never the
Sabbath-school, never the missionary--but always whiskey!  Such is the case. Look history over;
you will see.  The missionary comes after the whiskey--I mean he arrives after the whiskey
has arrived; next comes the poor immigrant, with ax and hoe and rifle; next, the trader; next,
the miscellaneous rush; next, the gambler, the desperado, the highwayman, and all their kindred
in sin of both sexes; and next, the smart chap who has bought up an old grant that covers all
the land; this brings the lawyer tribe; the vigilance committee brings the undertaker. All
these interests bring the newspaper; the newspaper starts up politics and a railroad; all hands
turn to and build a church and a jail--and behold, civilization is established for ever in
the land. But whiskey, you see, was the van- leader in this beneficent work. It always is.
It was like a foreigner-- and excusable in a foreigner--to be ignorant of this great truth,
and wander off into astronomy to borrow a symbol.  But if he had been conversant with the facts,
he would have said--

Westward the Jug of Empire takes its way.

This great van-leader arrived upon the ground which St. Paul now occupies, in June 1837.  Yes,
at that date, Pierre Parrant, a Canadian, built the first cabin, uncorked his jug, and began
to sell whiskey to the Indians. The result is before us.

All that I have said of the newness, briskness, swift progress, wealth, intelligence, fine
and substantial architecture, and general slash and go, and energy of St. Paul, will apply
to his near neighbor, Minneapolis--with the addition that the latter is the bigger of the two
cities.

These extraordinary towns were ten miles apart, a few months ago, but were growing so fast
that they may possibly be joined now, and getting along under a single mayor.  At any rate,
within five years from now there will be at least such a substantial ligament of buildings
stretching between them and uniting them that a stranger will not be able to tell where the
one Siamese twin leaves off and the other begins. Combined, they will then number a population
of two hundred and fifty thousand, if they continue to grow as they are now growing. Thus,
this center of population at the head of Mississippi navigation, will then begin a rivalry
as to numbers, with that center of population at the foot of it--New Orleans.

Minneapolis is situated at the falls of St. Anthony, which stretch across the river, fifteen
hundred feet, and have a fall of eighty-two feet--a waterpower which, by art, has been made
of inestimable value, business-wise, though somewhat to the damage of the Falls as a spectacle,
or as a background against which to get your photograph taken.

Thirty flouring-mills turn out two million barrels of the very choicest of flour every year;
twenty sawmills produce two hundred million feet of lumber annually; then there are woolen
mills, cotton mills, paper and oil mills; and sash, nail, furniture, barrel, and other factories,
without number, so to speak. The great flouring-mills here and at St. Paul use the 'new process'
and mash the wheat by rolling, instead of grinding it.

Sixteen railroads meet in Minneapolis, and sixty-five passenger trains arrive and depart daily.
In this place, as in St. Paul, journalism thrives. Here there are three great dailies, ten
weeklies, and three monthlies.

There is a university, with four hundred students--and, better still, its good efforts are
not confined to enlightening the one sex. There are sixteen public schools, with buildings
which cost $500,000; there are six thousand pupils and one hundred and twenty-eight teachers.
There are also seventy churches existing, and a lot more projected. The banks aggregate a capital
of $3,000,000, and the wholesale jobbing trade of the town amounts to $50,000,000 a year.

Near St. Paul and Minneapolis are several points of interest--Fort Snelling, a fortress occupying
a river-bluff a hundred feet high; the falls of Minnehaha, White-bear Lake, and so forth. The
beautiful falls of Minnehaha are sufficiently celebrated--they do not need a lift from me,
in that direction. The White-bear Lake is less known.  It is a lovely sheet of water, and is
being utilized as a summer resort by the wealth and fashion of the State.  It has its club-house,
and its hotel, with the modern improvements and conveniences; its fine summer residences; and
plenty of fishing, hunting, and pleasant drives. There are a dozen minor summer resorts around
about St. Paul and Minneapolis, but the White-bear Lake is the resort. Connected with White-bear
Lake is a most idiotic Indian legend. I would resist the temptation to print it here, if I
could, but the task is beyond my strength.  The guide-book names the preserver of the legend,
and compliments his 'facile pen.' Without further comment or delay then, let us turn the said
facile pen loose upon the reader--

A LEGEND OF WHITE-BEAR LAKE. 

The moment the sarcophagus touched the cutter, a magnificent royal flag, which the ladies of James
Town had embroidered for the occasion, was unfurled, and the 'Belle Poule' immediately squared her
masts and unfurled her colors.

All the manoeuvers of the frigate were immediately followed by the other vessels. Our mourning
had ceased with the exile of Napoleon, and the French naval division dressed itself out in
all its festal ornaments to receive the imperial coffin under the French flag.


The sun had again set upon the 'sugar-bush,' and the bright moon rose high in the bright blue
heavens, when the young warrior took down his flute and went out alone, once more to sing the
story of his love, the mild breeze gently moved the two gay feathers in his head-dress, and
as he mounted on the trunk of a leaning tree, the damp snow fell from his feet heavily.  As
he raised his flute to his lips, his blanket slipped from his well-formed shoulders, and lay
partly on the snow beneath. He began his weird, wild love-song, but soon felt that he was cold,
and as he reached back for his blanket, some unseen hand laid it gently on his shoulders; it
was the hand of his love, his guardian angel. She took her place beside him, and for the present
they were happy; for the Indian has a heart to love, and in this pride he is as noble as in
his own freedom, which makes him the child of the forest. As the legend runs, a large white-bear,
thinking, perhaps, that polar snows and dismal winter weather extended everywhere, took up
his journey southward. He at length approached the northern shore of the lake which now bears
his name, walked down the bank and made his way noiselessly through the deep heavy snow toward
the island.  It was the same spring ensuing that the lovers met.  They had left their first
retreat, and were now seated among the branches of a large elm which hung far over the lake.
(The same tree is still standing, and excites universal curiosity and interest.) For fear of
being detected, they talked almost in a whisper, and now, that they might get back to camp
in good time and thereby avoid suspicion, they were just rising to return, when the maiden
uttered a shriek which was heard at the camp, and bounding toward the young brave, she caught
his blanket, but missed the direction of her foot and fell, bearing the blanket with her into
the great arms of the ferocious monster. Instantly every man, woman, and child of the band
were upon the bank, but all unarmed.  Cries and wailings went up from every mouth. What was
to be done'? In the meantime this white and savage beast held the breathless maiden in his
huge grasp, and fondled with his precious prey as if he were used to scenes like this. Nor, my
love, must you suppose that the column was melted: it was the cannon was melted, not the column;
but such phrases are often used by orators when they wish to give a particular force and emphasis
to their opinions.

Well, again, although Napoleon might have slept in peace under "this audacious trophy," how
could he do so and carriages go rattling by all night, and people with great iron heels to their
boots pass clattering over the stones?

That night there was no more sleep for the band or the lovers, and as the young and the old
danced about the carcass of the dead monster, the gallant warrior was presented with another
plume, and ere another moon had set he had a living treasure added to his heart. Their children
for many years played upon the skin of the white-bear--from which the lake derives its name--and
the maiden and the brave remembered long the fearful scene and rescue that made them one, for
Kis-se-me-pa and Ka-go- ka could never forget their fearful encounter with the huge monster
that came so near sending them to the happy hunting-ground.

It is a perplexing business.  First, she fell down out of the tree--she and the blanket; and
the bear caught her and fondled her--her and the blanket; then she fell up into the tree again--leaving
the blanket; meantime the lover goes war-whooping home and comes back 'heeled,' climbs the
tree, jumps down on the bear, the girl jumps down after him-- apparently, for she was up the
tree--resumes her place in the bear's arms along with the blanket, the lover rams his knife
into the bear, and saves--whom, the blanket?  No--nothing of the sort. You get yourself all
worked up and excited about that blanket, and then all of a sudden, just when a happy climax
seems imminent you are let down flat--nothing saved but the girl. Whereas, one is not interested
in the girl; she is not the prominent feature of the legend.  Nevertheless, there you are left,
and there you must remain; for if you live a thousand years you will never know who got the
blanket. A dead man could get up a better legend than this one. I don't mean a fresh dead man
either; I mean a man that's been dead weeks and weeks.

We struck the home-trail now, and in a few hours were in that astonishing Chicago--a city where
they are always rubbing the lamp, and fetching up the genii, and contriving and achieving new
impossibilities. It is hopeless for the occasional visitor to try to keep up with Chicago--she
outgrows his prophecies faster than he can make them. She is always a novelty; for she is never
the Chicago you saw when you passed through the last time.  The Pennsylvania road rushed us
to New York without missing schedule time ten minutes anywhere on the route; and there ended
one of the most enjoyable five-thousand-mile journeys I have ever had the good fortune to make.

APPENDIX A

(FROM THE NEW ORLEANS TIMES DEMOCRAT OF MARCH 29, 1882.)

VOYAGE OF THE TIMES-DEMOCRAT'S RELIEF BOAT THROUGH THE INUNDATED REGIONS

IT was nine o'clock Thursday morning when the 'Susie' left the Mississippi and entered Old
River, or what is now called the mouth of the Red.  Ascending on the left, a flood was pouring
in through and over the levees on the Chandler plantation, the most northern point in Pointe
Coupee parish.  The water completely covered the place, although the levees had given way but
a short time before. The stock had been gathered in a large flat-boat, where, without food,
as we passed, the animals were huddled together, waiting for a boat to tow them off.  On the
right-hand side of the river is Turnbull's Island, and on it is a large plantation which formerly
was pronounced one of the most fertile in the State. The water has hitherto allowed it to go
scot-free in usual floods, but now broad sheets of water told only where fields were. The top
of the protecting levee could be seen here and there, but nearly all of it was submerged.

The trees have put on a greener foliage since the water has poured in, and the woods look bright
and fresh, but this pleasant aspect to the eye is neutralized by the interminable waste of
water.  We pass mile after mile, and it is nothing but trees standing up to their branches
in water. A water-turkey now and again rises and flies ahead into the long avenue of silence.
A pirogue sometimes flits from the bushes and crosses the Red River on its way out to the Mississippi,
but the sad- faced paddlers never turn their heads to look at our boat.  The puffing of the
boat is music in this gloom, which affects one most curiously. It is not the gloom of deep
forests or dark caverns, but a peculiar kind of solemn silence and impressive awe that holds
one perforce to its recognition. We passed two negro families on a raft tied up in the willows
this morning. They were evidently of the well-to-do class, as they had a supply of meal and
three or four hogs with them.  Their rafts were about twenty feet square, and in front of an
improvised shelter earth had been placed, on which they built their fire.

The current running down the Atchafalaya was very swift, the Mississippi showing a predilection
in that direction, which needs only to be seen to enforce the opinion of that river's desperate
endeavors to find a short way to the Gulf. Small boats, skiffs, pirogues, etc., are in great
demand, and many have been stolen by piratical negroes, who take them where they will bring
the greatest price. From what was told me by Mr. C. P. Ferguson, a planter near Red River Landing,
whose place has just gone under, there is much suffering in the rear of that place. The negroes
had given up all thoughts of a crevasse there, as the upper levee had stood so long, and when
it did come they were at its mercy. On Thursday a number were taken out of trees and off of
cabin roofs and brought in, many yet remaining.

One does not appreciate the sight of earth until he has traveled through a flood.  At sea one
does not expect or look for it, but here, with fluttering leaves, shadowy forest aisles, house-tops
barely visible, it is expected. Should we be any better than our neighbors? No, certainly. And
as we can't be virtuous, let us be decent. Figleaves are a very decent, becoming wear, and
have been now in fashion for four thousand years. And so, my dear, history is written on fig-leaves.
Would you have anything further? O fie!

Yes, four thousand years ago that famous tree was planted. At their very first lie, our first
parents made for it, and there it is still the great Humbug Plant,
stretching its wide arms, and sheltering beneath its leaves, as broad
and green as ever, all the generations of men.

Thus, my dear, coquettes of your fascinating sex cover their persons with figgery, fantastically arranged,
and call their masquerading, modesty. One man, whom
your correspondent spoke to, said that he had had one hundred and fifty head of cattle and
one hundred head of hogs. At the first appearance of water he had started to drive them to
the high lands of Avoyelles, thirty-five miles off, but he lost fifty head of the beef cattle
and sixty hogs. Black River is quite picturesque, even if its shores are under water. A dense
growth of ash, oak, gum, and hickory make the shores almost impenetrable, and where one can
get a view down some avenue in the trees, only the dim outlines of distant trunks can be barely
distinguished in the gloom.

A few miles up this river, the depth of water on the banks was fully eight feet, and on all
sides could be seen, still holding against the strong current, the tops of cabins. Here and
there one overturned was surrounded by drift-wood, forming the nucleus of possibly some future
island.

In order to save coal, as it was impossible to get that fuel at any point to be touched during
the expedition, a look-out was kept for a wood-pile. On rounding a point a pirogue, skilfully
paddled by a youth, shot out, and in its bow was a girl of fifteen, of fair face, beautiful
black eyes, and demure manners.  The boy asked for a paper, which was thrown to him, and the
couple pushed their tiny craft out into the swell of the boat.

Presently a little girl, not certainly over twelve years, paddled out in the smallest little
canoe and handled it with all the deftness of an old voyageur.  The little one looked more
like an Indian than a white child, and laughed when asked if she were afraid. She had been
raised in a pirogue and could go anywhere. She was bound out to pick willow leaves for the
stock, and she pointed to a house near by with water three inches deep on the floors. At its
back door was moored a raft about thirty feet square, with a sort of fence built upon it, and
inside of this some sixteen cows and twenty hogs were standing.  The family did not complain,
except on account of losing their stock, and promptly brought a supply of wood in a flat.

From this point to the Mississippi River, fifteen miles, there is not a spot of earth above
water, and to the westward for thirty-five miles there is nothing but the river's flood. Fancy some
Angelic Virtue, whose white raiment is suddenly whisked over his head, showing us cloven feet
and a tail! Fancy Humility, eased of its sad load of cares and want and scorn, walking up to
the very highest place of all, and blushing as he takes it!  To add to the gloom,
almost every living thing seems to have departed, and not a whistle of a bird nor the bark
of the squirrel can be heard in this solitude. Sometimes a morose gar will throw his tail aloft
and disappear in the river, but beyond this everything is quiet--the quiet of dissolution.
Down the river floats now a neatly whitewashed hen-house, then a cluster of neatly split fence-
rails, or a door and a bloated carcass, solemnly guarded by a pair of buzzards, the only bird
to be seen, which feast on the carcass as it bears them along.  A picture-frame in which there
was a cheap lithograph of a soldier on horseback, as it floated on told of some hearth invaded
by the water and despoiled of this ornament.

