"Was it so bad as that?" she murmured, a great content soothing her heart and brain at her
lover's admission that he was thinking of her during the worst agony of the fray.  He gave
her a reassuring hug.

"You will never know how bad it was," he said.  "I cannot understand how we escaped. Soldiers and
sailors, and marines too, must have a mascot. A cat, a dog, a goat, a parrot, a monkey, a
pig, a lion cub, or a bear are among the commonest and most popular
of mascots. Therefore the marines would usually disdain any one of
these.
I almost lost faith when I heard Tollemache shout that the saloon was in danger, but I could
not leave the after deck, where four of us were keeping fifty in check.  The least sign of
yielding would have caused an overwhelming rush.  Well, all's well that ends well.  And not
a sailor living can squeeze his best girl and do his work at the same time.  Off with you,
or I shall never bring you on a voyage in my ship again."

With her soul singing a canticle of joy she passed from the bridge to the lower deck.  Mr.
Boyle was waiting there, holding a lantern.

"Huh!" he growled, when he saw her, "p'raps you'll believe what I tell you before your hair
turns gray, if not sooner.  Luck!  Did any man ever have such luck as the skipper?  Why, if
he fell off Mong Blong he'd find a circus net rigged up to catch him."

"I agree with you so fully, Mr. Boyle," she whispered, "that I am going to marry him."

"I guessed as much," he answered.  "At any rate I fancied it wouldn't be for want of axing
on his part."  He whirled off into a tempest of wrath because a sailor beneath had failed to
keep a guide-rope taut. The occupants of the boats might have saved his life, but he would
let them know that he was still chief officer for all that.

At last he stooped and gave his hand to some one who emerged from the darkness beneath.

"Glad to see you again, Miss Baring," he said gruffly.  "And you, Mrs. Somerville.  And you,
sir," to the missionary.  "We thought you'd gone under, an' good folks are scarce enough as it is."

It was a wan and broken-spirited Isobel whom Elsie led to her cabin, but notwithstanding her
wretched state, her eyes quickly took in the orderly condition of the room.

"I left my clothes strewed all over the floor," she said, with a nervousness which Elsie attributed
to the hardships she had undergone. "Why did you trouble to pack them away?"

Then Elsie told her of her hunt for the poudrière, and was so obviously unconcerned about any
incident other than the adventures they had both experienced since they parted, that Isobel
questioned her no further. A bath and a change of clothing worked marvels.  Though thin and
weak for want of proper food, neither Isobel nor Mrs. Somerville had suffered in health from
the exposure and short fare involved by life on the island.  It was broad daylight ere they
could be persuaded to retire to rest, there was so much to tell and to hear.

Meanwhile, the meeting between Tollemache and Gray was full of racial subtleties.

Tollemache, stepping forward to grasp Gray's hand, felt it was incumbent on him to utter the
first word.

"Had a pretty rotten time of it, I expect?" said he.

"Poisonous.  And you?"

"Oh, fair.  Beastly close squeak when you turned up."

Gray became more explicit when Courtenay met him in the chart-room, where the table had to
be cleared of debris before some glasses and a couple of bottles of champagne could be staged.

"When those blackguards cast off from the ship," he said, "we scudded away in a sort of ocean
mill-race which threatened to upset us at any moment.  In fact, we gave up hope for a time,
but, as the boat kept afloat, Mr. Malcolm and I managed to stir up the Chileans, and we got
them to steady her with the oars.  Some time before daybreak we ran into smooth water, and
made out land on the port bow.  In a few minutes we were ashore on a pebbly beach, in a place
alive with seals.  When the sun rose we found we were on a barren island, and, what was more,
that one of the ship's life-boats had been upset on a reef which we just missed, and had lost
all her stores, though the men had scrambled into safety.  With the aid of our boat, and helped
by fine weather, we raised the life-boat, and recovered some of her fittings.  The water-casks
and tins of food were hauled up by a chap who could dive well.  We have been on that lump of
rock until today, when I finally persuaded the others that unless we made for the land which
we could see in the dim distance the weather would break and our food give out. The trouble
with the Chileans was that they were afraid of the natives hereabouts, and preferred to wait
on the off chance of a ship showing up.  At last they saw that Malcolm and I were right, but
we missed the full run of the tide, and were some miles from the mainland, or whatever it is,
when night fell.  We pushed along cautiously, found the entrance to the cove we had made out
before the light failed, and were about to lay to until dawn, when we saw a rocket and heard
the fog-horn.  That woke us up, you bet.  The Chileans pulled like mad, but when we came near
enough to discover that the ship was being attacked by Indians, I had a fearful job to get
my heroes to butt in.  That fellow Gomez is a brick.  He orated like a politician, and finally
they got a move on.  From what I have seen since I came aboard, I guess you were hustling about
that time?"

"Yes," said Courtenay, filling a glass with wine as he heard Boyle's step without.  He handed
the glass to the chief when he entered.

"How many?" he asked.

"Huh!  We've slung fifty-three Indians an' six of the crew overboard. There's fourteen wounded
natives an' five of our men in the doctor's hands.  Two Alaculofs died of funk when they set
eyes on the nigger who turned up in the life-boat.  They thought--well, here's chin chin to
everybody.  I'm thirsty."

CHAPTER XVI

CHRISTOBAL'S TEMPTATION

"By the way, what of Monsieur de Poincilit?" said Courtenay.  "I saw him come aboard with Malcolm,
but he dived into the saloon, and has not reappeared.  Is he ill?"

Gray's mouth set like a steel trap; his eyes had a glint in them.  He seemed to be unwilling
to speak; when words came, they were cold and measured.

"I haven't any use for that fellow," he said.  "I suppose the unpleasant story must be told
sooner or later, so here goes.  In the first place, Poincilit forgot that I understood Spanish,
and I heard him yelping to the Chileans in the jolly-boat that if we took any more people on
board we should be swamped.  It was he who put the notion in their heads to cast off while
you were lowering Miss Baring's maid into my arms.  I tried to forget that, as he was blue-white
with fear, and some fellows are not responsible for their actions when their liver melts. 
But I can never forget his action on the island.  Yesterday morning I was just in time to stop
him and four others from sneaking off in the life-boat with all our provisions."

Courtenay's face hardened too.

"Necessity may have no laws," said he; "but I fancy I should have found a code to meet his case."

"I have organized a Vigilance Committee in my time, and its articles kind of fitted in," was
the American's quiet reply.  "That is why I have a few recent knife-cuts distributed about
my skin; I began to shoot and we were two short on the muster roll next day.  De Poincilit
ran, and fell on his knees.  So did a skunk of an Italian, and I did not want to waste cartridges.
They were tied back to back until we sailed to-day."

"And the fifth?"

"The fifth was a woman."

"Huh!"  Boyle reached out for a bottle of wine and refilled his glass. For a little while there
was silence.  Then Courtenay muttered:

"Poor devil of a Count!  'She gave me of the tree and I did eat.'  Did he blame the woman?"

"Well, yes.  But it was a mean business, any how."

"Better sponge it off the slate, eh?"

"I agree heartily.  Drink up, Boyle, and pass the buck.  I have a five years' thirst."

They talked until day-break; then Courtenay turned in.  He did not appear on deck again until
noon.  By that time the Kansas had lost all marks of the fight excepting the smashed windows,
and a sailor who understood the glazier's art was replacing the broken glass.  Making the round
of the ship, the captain found Elsie sitting with Isobel and Mrs. Somerville on the promenade
deck.  She was binding Joey's foot, and he knew then why the dog had scampered off on three
legs as soon as the cabin door was opened.

The girl colored very prettily the moment she set eyes on her lover. Memories of the previous
night became exceedingly vivid.  She was adorably shy, Courtenay thought.  As he approached,
he debated the manner of his greeting; being a sailor, he did not hesitate.

Lifting his cap with a smile and a general "Good morning," he bent over Elsie.

"Well," he said, "surely you owe me at least one kiss?"

If her cheeks were red before they became scarlet now.  But his kindling glance had warned
her that he would adopt no pretence, so she lifted her face to his, though she did not dare
to look at her amazed companions.  Courtenay explained matters quite coolly.

"If Elsie has not told you already, it is my privilege to announce that she and I have signed
articles," he said with a smile.  "That is, we intend to get married as soon as the ship reaches
England."

"Indeed, I congratulate you both most heartily," said the missionary's wife.

"Events have marched, then, while we were stranded on that wretched island?" tittered Isobel.
Her voice was rather shrill.  She, too, was excited, not quite mistress of herself.  She did
not know how far Gray's statements might have prejudiced her with the captain; she had already
sent de Poincilit a note urging him to deny absolutely all knowledge of the plot to steal the
boat, and attribute the American's summary action to his mistaken rendering of the Spanish
patois used by the Chilean sailors.

"Yes," laughed Courtenay, ready to put her at ease.  "One crowds the events of a month into
a day under some conditions.  Last night, for instance, I had five minutes' amusement with
a steampipe and a double-barrelled gun which will serve all my requirements in the way of physical
exercise for a long time to come."

"You feel sure that we shall see no more of the Indians?" asked Isobel, quickly.

"I think so.  One never can tell, but if they have the grit to attack us again I shall regard
them as first-class fighters."

"Dr. Christobal says they have an astonishing power of bearing pain without flinching," said
Elsie, plunging into the talk with a hot eagerness.  "The Alaculofs in the fore cabin were
afraid of him, thinking he meant to kill them, but, when they found that he wished only to
dress their wounds, they followed his actions with a curious interest, as though he were tending
some other person's hurts and not their own.  And that reminds me.  He told me you ought to
have that cut on your forehead washed.  Let me look at it."

She stood up, and placed the dog on a chair.  Lifting Courtenay's cap she brushed back his
hair with her fingers, and found that he had covered an ugly scar with a long strip of skin
plaster.  The tense anxiety in Isobel's face forthwith yielded to sheer bewilderment. These
two were behaving with the self-possession of young people who regard the "engagement" stage
as a venerable institution.

Of course Courtenay liked to be fondled in this manner.  Elsie was at her best as a ministering
angel.  But he protested against the need of the doctor's precaution.

"No, no," he cried, "you already have one faithful patient in Joey.  I wonder he did not wake
me earlier so that he might rush off to you.  I never have known him play the old soldier before.
To see him curled up there, gazing at you with those pathetic eyes, who would think that his
teeth met in Alaculof sinews last night?  Twice, to my knowledge, he saved my life.  And the
way he dodged blows aimed at him was something marvelous.  He used all four paws then, I assure
you."

"Ah, yes," agreed Elsie, blushing again as she recalled the scene in the saloon.  "He could
have told me the Indians were aboard long before I knew it myself.  Dr. Christobal deceived
me so admirably that I am not sure yet if I have forgiven him."

"He is a first-rate chap in an emergency," said Courtenay, "though I have a bone to pick with
him, too.  He promised to call me at eight o'clock, but I expect he and Boyle, or Tollemache,
conspired to let me sleep on.  I was astounded when I saw the time.  What do you think of a
skipper who lies abed all the morning, Miss Baring?"

"Gray has told him nothing," she decided at once.  "That is very nice of Gray.  I must thank
him."  But she replied instantly, in her piquant way:

"Elsie certainly kept us in the dark about her fiançailles, Captain Courtenay; but has not
been silent as to your other achievements.  If you were not telling us that you have actually
slept, I should have cherished the belief that you had not closed an eyelid since the ship struck."

Isobel meant to be on her best behavior.  Her pact with the Frenchman was discreditable but
smooth words might restrain tongues from wagging until she could leave the ship.  Moreover,
the vicissitudes of life in these later days were not without their effect.  She had known
what it was to suffer.  She had seen men dying like cattle in the shambles. The shadow of eternity
had fallen so closely that twice during the preceding night she was rudely awaked by the shrieking
fear of a too vivid dream.  These things were not the butterfly flutterings of sunlit Valparaiso.
They were of a more ardent order, and her wings had not yet recovered from the singeing.

Courtenay, willing to maintain a fiction which evidently gave her relief, answered lightly
that he yet had to earn these compliments, but he hoped to be able soon to fix a date when
everybody might bombard him with the nicest phrases they could think of, and end the embarrassing
ordeal once for all.

"I went through something of the sort last year on board the Florida," he added.  "People insist
on regarding it as marvelous that a man should strive to do his simple duty."

Suddenly it occurred to him that the topic was unpleasantly analogous to the little French
count's cowardly escapades.  If one talks of duty, and recognizes its prior claim, what of
the man who, in his selfish frenzy, is prepared to leave others to their fate, whether on a
wrecked ship or a barren island?  So he turned to Elsie again.

"By the way, you have never seen those letters," he said.  "I was hunting for them when the
alarm was raised last night.  Shall I bring them now?"

Elsie gave him a glance of subtle meaning.  Her eyes telegraphed "What matters it whether I
see them to-day or in half a century?  Do I not trust you?"  But she only murmured:

"Not now, I am telling Mrs. Somerville and Isobel all the news."

He squeezed her shoulder.  Any excuse would serve for those slight pettings which mean so much
during early days in wonderland.

"Then I shall resume my rounds.  I expect to be received reproachfully by Walker.  He made
great progress yesterday.  Let me whisper a secret. Then you may pass it on, in strictest confidence."

He placed his lips close to her ear.

"I am dreadfully in love with you this morning," he breathed.

"That is no secret," she retorted.

"It is.  You and I together must daily find new paths in Eden.  But my less poetic tidings
should be welcome, also.  Walker says he hopes to get steam up to-morrow."

"Well, tell us quickly," cried Isobel, with a show of intense interest, when Courtenay had
gone.  She had decided on a line of conduct, and meant to follow it carefully.  The more sympathy
she extended towards her friend's love idyll, the less likelihood was there of disagreeable
developments in other respects.  That trick of calculating gush was Isobel's chief failing.
She was so wrapped up in self that her own interests governed every thought.  Courtenay's reference
to letters sent a wave of alarm pulsing through each nerve.  Though his manner betokened that
the affair was something which concerned Elsie alone, she was on fire until she learnt that
his "secret" alluded to the restored vitality of the ship.

For once, her expressions of gratitude were heartfelt.  Mrs. Somerville even wept for joy.
This poor woman after living twenty-five years in the oasis of a mission-house, was a strange
subject for storm-tossed wandering and fights with cannibals.  Seldom has fate conspired with
the fickle sea to sport with such helpless human flotsam, save, perhaps, in that crowning caprice
of the waves which once cast ashore a live baby in a cradle.

But the baby's emotions were crude, and probably in no wise connected with the tremors of ship-wreck,
whereas Mrs. Somerville, during these full days, was constantly asking herself how it could
be possible that she was living at all.

"It will be a real manifestation of Providence if we ever reach England again," she cried,
dabbing her eyes with a handkerchief.  "I'm sure John and I have said so many a time during
the past week.  To think of the ship's blowing up in the way she did, it makes me all of a
tremble, it does."

"Oh," broke in Elsie, thinking that the information she possessed would help to calm the older
woman, "we have made a good many discoveries since--since the boat went away without me, I
mean.  But do tell me, how did those horrid Chileans manage to cast off the tackle before Mr.
Gray or some of the other men were able to stop them?  Of course, it is matterless now, in
a sense, but at that moment it looked like leaving those on the ship to certain death."

Mrs. Somerville was stricken dumb.  The American's shooting of two men on White Horse Island
had naturally called for a complete explanation on his part, and she did not know how to answer
Elsie's question. Before she could gather her wits, Isobel intervened.

"If you had been in that boat, dear," she said sweetly, "you would realize the topsy-turvy
condition of our brains.  Even Mr. Gray himself, the coolest man on board, imagined we might
sink any moment. So what can you expect of those excitable Chileans?  Besides, the thing was
done so quickly that we were swept away by the tide before any one fully understood what was
happening.  Anyhow, you had the best of it, as events transpired.  What are the discoveries
you spoke of?"

"Well, some one placed dynamite among the coal."

"But who would do such a thing?"

"That is hard to say.  The captain believes that the culprit will be found out through the
insurance policies.  He and the others were discussing the affair one day in the chart-house--soon
after the dynamite cartridges were discovered--and you cannot tell how surprised I was to hear
him mention Ventana's name in connection with it."

"Ventana's name!"

The blood ebbed away from Isobel's cheeks, leaving her pallid as a statue.  There was a gasp
in her voice which startled her own ears. Lest her agitation should be noted too keenly, she
bent forward and propped her face on her clenched hands, staring fixedly at the distant cliffs
in a supreme effort to appear apathetic.  Elsie heard that dry sob, but her friend's seeming
indifference misled her.

"Yes," she said, wondering a little whether or not Christobal's veiled hint regarding a by-gone
tenderness between the two might account for Isobel's hysterical outburst on the night of the
ship's break-down. The anteater that one body of marines adopted when they were landed at Vera Cruz
proved a very interesting and original mascot, and also that anteaters were not always exactly
as they are described in school textbooks, for this anteater disdained to eat ants and greedily devoured
anything from the food of the marines that they would give him, or that he could steal--bread,
meat, pie, doughnuts, or eggs.

A writer telling about this anteater mascot says he was taught several tricks, one of which was
to put out with his forepaws every lighted cigarette dropped near him and then to tear it into
little pieces.

Heywood Broun, the writer, goes on to say, "The marine who dropped a hundred franc note by mistake
just in front of Jimmy says that teaching tricks to anteaters is all foolishness."

And how do they sustain the reputation of their branch in the great things? Here is where soldier,
sailor, or marine must prove his superiority, for excelling here means greater service to his country.
It would be difficult indeed to give the palm to any branch of the service. They have all endured
hardship and met wounds and death with equal gallantry, each striving to outdo the other in devotion
and sacrifice.

Secretary Daniels has told the inspiring heroic story of the fighting of the eight thousand marines
who in June, 1918, were thrown into the open gap between the advancing Germans and Paris.

Although they were without proper artillery support and too small in numbers for the task, General
Pershing in those dark days offered their services to Marshal Foch, saying, "If you have no other
troops to use and the gap must be closed and the Germans stopped, they will do it." And they
did!

But out of the eight thousand, four thousand were missing, wounded, or killed. Read Secretary
Daniels' story of this fight, called the battle of Belleau Wood, and be proud that you are an
American.

It was on the evening of May 30, after a day dedicated to the memory of their comrades who had fallen
in the training days and in the Verdun sector, that the 5th and 6th Regiments and the 6th Machine
Gun Battalion, United States marines, each received the following orders:--

Advance information official received that this regiment will move at 10 P.M. 30 May by bus
to new area. All trains shall be loaded at once and arrangements hastened. Wagons, when loaded,
will move to Serans to form train.

All through the night there was fevered activity among the marines.

Then, the next morning, the long trains of camions, busses, and trucks, each carrying its
full complement of United States marines, went forward on a road which at one place wound within
less than ten miles of Paris, toward Meaux and the fighting line.

Through the town of Meaux went the long line of camions and to the village of Montriel-aux-Lions,
less than four miles from the rapidly advancing German line. On this trip the camions containing
the Americans were the only traffic traveling in the direction of the Germans; everything else was
going the other way--refugees, old men and women, small children, riding on every conceivable
conveyance, many trudging along the side of the road driving a cow or calf before them, all of
them covered with the white dust which the camion caravan was whirling
up as it rolled along; along that road only one organization was advancing,
the United States marines.

WHEN THE TIDE TURNED

THE AMERICAN ATTACK
AT CHÂTEAU-THIERRY AND BELLEAU WOOD IN THE FIRST WEEK OF JUNE, 1918

BY
OTTO H. KAHN

AN ADDRESS AT THE UNITED WAR WORK CAMPAIGN MEETING OF
THE BOSTON ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION, NOVEMBER 12, 1918

WHY THE TIDE WAS
FATED TO TURN

These are soul-stirring days. To live through them
is a glory and a solemn joy. The words of the poet resound in our
hearts: "God's in His heaven, all's right with the world."

Events
have shaped themselves in accordance with the eternal law. Once again
the fundamental lesson of all history is borne in upon the world,
that evil--though it may seem to triumph for a while--carries within
it the seed of its own dissolution.

Courtenay's brow became black with anger when he understood the significance of this staggering
story.

"It comes to this," he said to Christobal.  "The men who got away from the Kansas in No. 3
life-boat fell into the hands of the savages early on the day of the ship's arrival here. 
Suarez slipped his cable that night, being aware at the time that eleven white captives were
still alive.  Yet he said no word, not even when he heard that we had seen one of the boat's
water-casks in a canoe.  He, a Christian, bolted and remained silent, while some poor creature
of a woman risked her life, and ran counter to all her natural instincts, in the endeavor to
save the men of his own race.  What sort of mean hound can he be?"

Suarez needed no translation to grasp the purport of Courtenay's words. He besought the señor
captain to have patience with him.  He had escaped from a living tomb, and felt that he would
yield up his life rather than return.  Therefore, when he saw how few in number and badly armed
were they on board the ship, he thought it best to remain silent as to the fate of the boat's
crew.  In the first place, he fully expected that they had been killed by the Indians, who
would be enraged by his own disappearance.  Secondly, he alone knew how hopeless any attempt
at a rescue must prove.  Finally, he wished to spare the feelings of those who had befriended
him; of what avail were useless mind-torturings regarding the hapless beings in the hands of
the savages?

There was a certain plausibleness in this reasoning which curbed Courtenay's wrath, though
it in no way diminished the disgust which filled his soul.  What quality was there lacking
in the Latin races which rendered them so untrustworthy?  His crew had mutinied, de Poincilit
was ready to consign his companions in misfortune to a most frightful death on the barren island,
and here was Suarez hugging to his breast a ghastly secret which chance alone had brought to
light. He strove hard to repress the contempt which rose in his gorge, as it was essential
that the broken-spirited miner should not be frightened out of his new-born candor.

"Ask him to ascertain if the Indians believe the white men are still living?" he said.  A fresh
series of grunts and clicks elicited the fact that the smoke-column seen the previous day on
Guanaco Hill had not been created by the tribe.  Suarez begged the señor captain to remember
that he had spoken truly when he declared that its meaning was unknown to him.  Probably, from
what he now learnt, the girl who threw in her lot with the sailors had built a fire there.

Courtenay turned on his heel and quitted the cabin.  The smell of the Indians was loathsome,
the mere sight of Suarez offensive.  For this discovery had overcast the happiness of his wooing
as a thunder-cloud darkens and blots the smiling life out of a fair valley. The Yank did not smile
because he failed to realize the seriousness of his job, but because with him the harder, the
more dangerous, and the dirtier the job, the more must he smile and
"jolly" about it.

"They had come to France to do a certain piece of work.  Boyle was in the chart-house and Tollemache.  Each man noted the captain's
troubled face; from him they glanced towards the doctor; but the Spaniard had undergone his
purgatory some hours earlier; his thin features were now quite expressionless.

Courtenay obtained a telescope.  With the tact which never failed him, even in such a desperate
crisis as this, he handed the doctor his binoculars.  Then, both men looked at the summit of
Guanaco Hill. Though it was high noon, and the landscape was shimmering in the heat-mist created
by the unusual power and brilliance of the sun, they distinctly saw a thin pillar of smoke
rising above the trees. Courtenay closed his telescope.  He made to approach Boyle, evidently
for the purpose of giving some order, when Christobal said quietly:

"Wait!  I have something to say to you.  You ought to remain on the ship.  Let me go!"

"You?"

"Yes, I.  After all, it is only a matter of taking command.  One man cannot go alone.  He could
not even pull the life-boat so far.  Hence, what you can do I can do, and I have no objection
to dying in that way."

"Why should either of us die?"

"You know better than I how little chance there is of saving those men. You may deem me callous
if I suggest that the reasonable thing would be to forget the miserable statement you have
just heard.  Oh, please hear me to the end. Chance has given us Cicero in his night-shirt. The
linen is of such fine texture that we are delighted with it, but we despise the man because he
wore a garment--such as we wear ourselves indeed, though when we wear it nobody is then brought
in to look at us.

There is one most touching letter written from Thessalonica to his
brother, by whom, after thoughts vacillating this way and that, he
was unwilling to be visited, thinking that a meeting would bring more
of pain than of service.  In that event, a lady in whom we are both interested
will suffer grievously.  On the other hand, if I were killed, she would weep a little, because
she has a large heart, but you would console her. And the odd thing is that you and I are fully
aware that either you or I must go off on this fool's errand.  There is none other to take
the vacant place.  Now, have I made myself clear?"

"You are a good fellow, Christobal.  You revive my faith in human nature, and that is my best
apology if I irritated you just now by my attitude.  But don't you see that I can neither accept
your generous offer nor sail away from our harbor of refuge without making an attempt to save
my men?"

"They are not your men.  They forfeited your captaincy by their own action.  In the effort
to succor them you will lose at least one life which is precious to all on board this ship.
I am twice your age, Courtenay, and I affirm unhesitatingly that you are wrong."

"Yet you are ready to take my place?"

"I have given you my reasons."

"They do you honor; but you would fail where I might succeed.  You are not a sailor.  Brave
as I know you to be, you are not physically fitted for the rough work which may be needed.
I think, too, you exaggerate the risk.  The Alaculofs are broken by last night's failure. 
They will not dare to face us."

"At least spare me an argument which does not convince yourself; otherwise you would depute
me instantly for the service."

"Well, you force plain speaking.  While I command the Kansas I am responsible for the well-being
of the ship, her crew, and her passengers.  I could never forgive myself if I left those men
to the mercy of the Indians.  I cannot permit either you or Tollemache to take a risk which
I shirk.  Boyle and Walker must remain on board--lest I fail.  Now, Christobal, don't make
my duty harder.  Shake hands!  I am proud to claim you as a friend."

"Huh!" said Boyle, strolling towards them.  "What is it?  A bet?"

"Yes," laughed Courtenay, from whose face all doubt had vanished; "a bet, indeed, and you hold
the stakes.  Have you seen the smoke signal yonder?" and he pointed across the bay.

"Yes.  Tollemache found it again, twenty minutes since."

