It was now many months since Coubitant had escaped the punishment that was due to his many
crimes, and had fled from the wrath of Tisquantum. But he had contrived to keep up an exact
knowledge of the movements of the tribe, and even an intercourse with his own treacherous partisans.
Often, indeed, as the Nausetts traveled slowly across the wide plain between the Missouri and
the Mississippi, that well-known and terrible eye of fire was fixed upon them from the elevated
bough of some thick tree, or from the overhanging summit of a neighboring rock; and often at
night, when the camp was sunk in the silence of repose, his guilty confederates crept forth
to meet him in some retired spot, and form plans for the future.

In this way Coubitant dodged the path of the Nausetts while they traversed the forests and
savannas, the lulls and the valleys, that led them at length to the great lake, now so well
known as Lake Superior. Here they encamped for a considerable time, in order to construct a
sufficient number of canoes to carry the whole party across it and also, by following the chain
of lakes and rivers that intersects that part of the great continent, and ends in Lake Ontario,
to enable them to land at no very great distance from their own native district.

When the little fleet set out on its long and circuitous voyage, Coubitant actually contrived
to be one of the passengers. His partisans secured a canoe to themselves; and, pretending that
some of their arrangements were incomplete, they lingered on the shore until the rest of the
boats were nearly out of sight. They then summoned their leader from his place of concealment,
and, giving him a seat in the canoe, followed at their leisure.  Thus he performed the whole
of the voyage; and when the tribe landed on the eastern shore of Ontario, and recommenced their
wanderings on land, he left their route, and hastened forward to try and contrive some schemes
that could further his own views.

The news of the war between the English and his old friends, the Pequodees, soon reached him;
and, in an incredibly short time, he arrived in their country, and joined Sassacus in his fortified
village. It was he who travelled from thence to the head-quarters of the Nausetts, near Cape
Cod, and secured their assistance in the coming conflict; and then returned in time to send
a trusty emissary to meet Tisquantum, and deliver to him a courteous message from Sassacus.

This message had the desired effect; for Tisquantum called a council of his braves, and submitted
to them the request of their powerful ally, that they would fight with him against the Narragansetts.
The emissary was instructed to say nothing of the quarrel with the English; for Coubitant wished
to get Henrich into the power of the Pequodees, before he became aware of the service that
was to be required of him; and he trusted that no intelligence would reach him in the desolate
country through which he and his warriors would have to march.

All the assembled council were unanimous in their decision, that the request of Sassacus should
be complied with; and Tisquantum then turned to Henrich, who sat beside him, and said--

'My son! the days are past when I could lead forth my warriors to the battle, and wield my
tomahawk with the best and the bravest. I must sit in my tent with the children and the squaws,
and tell of the deeds that I once could perform, while my young braves are in the field of
fight. You must now be their leader, Henrich; and let them see that, though your skin is fair,
you have in your breast an Indian heart.'

'I will, my father,' replied the Young Sachem. 'Your warriors shall be led into the thickest
of the battle, even as if your long-lost Tekoa went before them with his glancing spear. Tisquantum
shall never have cause to feel shame for the son of his adoption.'

'I know it, my brave Henrich,' said the old Chief, 'I know that the honor of Tisquantum's race
is safe in your hands; and that you will fight in defence of my ancient friends and allies,
even as I would have fought in the days of my young strength. Come away, now; my warriors must
prepare to go with the messenger of the great Sassacus. No time must be lost in giving him
the aid he asks; and you, my son, will be ready by to-morrow's dawn to lead them on their way.
I cannot go with you, for these feeble limbs are unfit to travel at the speed with which you
must cross the forests and the plains; neither could the women and children bear it.  We will
follow the course that we designed to take, and go to the land of my fathers in the far east;
and there we will wait for our victorious warriors.’

As Tisquantum said this, he left the hall of council, which consisted of a shadowing maple
tree, and led his companion to the hut of boughs, in which Oriana and Mailah sat anxiously
awaiting the result of the conference. They did not regret when they heard that their husbands
were to hasten to the scene of war, for they were Indian women, and could glory in the deeds
of their warriors. But when they were informed that the main body of the tribe was to pursue
the intended route towards Paomet,[*] their grief and disappointment were very great.

[Footnote: Cape Cod]

'Must I leave you, Henrich?' exclaimed Oriana. 'Must I know that you are in the battle-field;
and wounded perhaps, and wanting my aid, and I far away? Let me go with you! You know that
Oriana can bear danger, and fatigue, and hardship; and with you there would be no danger.'

'It cannot be,' replied Henrich, gently but decidedly. 'Your father cannot travel, as we must
do, with no respite or repose; and you, my Oriana, could not leave him and our boy. You must
go with them to Paomet, my love; and prepare a home for me after the fight is done. The camp
of the fierce Pequodees is no place for you.'

Oriana felt that her husband was right; and she said no more. But she did not the less sorrowfully
assist him in his preparations for the journey and the battle, or feel less keenly the grief
of separation when, at daybreak on the following morning, he and his warriors were ready to
set out.

'My son,' said Tisquantum, as he grasped the hand of Henrich, 'I have one request--I would
rather say command--to impress upon you before we part. Let it not be known in the camp that
you are a pale-face. I know that your good arm will bring glory on yourself and those who follow
you; and I would have that glory belong to my own people, among whom you have learned to fight.
I ask it also for your own sake; for in the camp of Sassacus there may be some who regard your
race with jealousy and hatred, and would not bear to see a pale-face excelling the red men.
You may trust my warriors. They look on you as they would have done on my Tekoa. But you may
not trust either our Indian friends, or our Indian foes.'

Henrich regarded this precaution as needless; yet, when Oriana joined her entreaties to those
of her father, he readily gave the promise required. His costume and accoutrements were strictly
native; and constant exposure to the air and sun had burnt his skin almost to a copper color.
But his eyes were a deep blue; and his hair, though now dark, had a rich auburn glow upon it,
that differed greatly from the jet black locks so universal among the Indians. To hide this,
Oriana gathered it up into a knot on the top of his head in native fashion, and covered it
with a close black cap. Over this his Sachem's coronet of feathers was placed; and it would
have required a very scrutinising and suspicious eye to have detected the disguise. The blue
eyes alone gave intimation of an European extraction; and they were so shaded by long black
lashes, and had an expression so deep and penetrating, that few could discover of what color
they were.  The tongue of Hannah, too, had learnt to speak the Indian language with a pure,
native accent, that no one could acquire who had not been brought up among the red men; so
that there was little fear of his being known for a pale-face, amid the excitement and confusion
of the war.

The warriors departed; and Tisquantum's party resumed their journey, though not so joyously
as before their separation from those who were going to meet danger, and, perhaps, death.

With unremitting speed, the Nausett braves pursued their way, and reached the land of the Pequodees
before the campaign had begun. Sassacus had, as we have seen, taken up his position in one
of his boasted forts, and he wanted no reinforcements there; for his presence was regarded
by his people as a panoply of strength.  He, therefore, sent to desire the Nausett detachment
to march to Fort Mystic, and assist the garrison there in defending it against any attack that
might he made.

CHAPTER  XXIII.

'Merciful God! how horrible is night! …There the shout Of battle, the barbarian yell, the bray
Of dissonant instruments, the clang of arms, The shriek of agony, the groan of death, In one
wild uproar and continuous din, Shake the still air; while overhead, the moon, Regardless of
the stir of this low world, Holds on her heavenly way.’    MADOC.

Henrich was now called on to perform the part of an Indian leader in an Indian camp. It was
no new position to him; for, during his years of wandering with the Nansetts, he had taken
an active part in many of the wars that were being waged by the tribes among whom they had
sojourned, against their hostile neighbors.  He, therefore, was fully conversant with Indian
modes of warfare; but he was as unaccustomed as his followers were to the defence of a fortress,
or to a pitched battle between assembled forces in an open field.

He had not been long at Fort Mystic ere he found that he was about to be opposed to some of
his own countrymen, and the information filled him with grief and dismay. It is true, he had
dwelt so long among the Nausett Indians, and all his personal interests were so bound up with
theirs, that he felt as if they were indeed his kindred. But still his heart yearned towards
his own people and the friends of his childhood, and the idea of being instrumental in shedding
the blood of a Briton was utterly repugnant to him. It was now, however, too late to retract.
He had pledged his word to Tisquantum that he would lead his warriors bravely against the foes
of his allies, and honor forbad him to decline the post of their Sachem and commander. He therefore
concealed his scruples and anxieties in his own breast, and resolved to do what he now felt
to be his duty. It was with much satisfaction that he learnt, from one of the Indian spies,
that the detachment of troops from New Plymouth had been unable to join the forces of their
countrymen; for thus he should be spared the trial of being placed in opposition to those with
whom, perhaps, he had been brought up in childhood. Towards the other settlers be entertained
a far less friendly feeling; as reports of their cruel and unjust conduct towards the natives
had, from time to time, reached him during his residence in different parts of the continent.

The Pequodees and their allies treated him with respect and honor, as the representative of
their ancient friend Tisquantum; and if his English blood was known to any of them, they made
no remarks on the subject. They did not dare to notice what such a man as the Nausett Sachem
appeared to be, chose to conceal.

But it is certain that there was one in the fortress of Mystic whose keen eye had penetrated
the disguise, and to whom the features of Henrich were so familiar, that he could even read
his thoughts in his open and ingenuous countenance.  Coubitant was already in the castle before
the Nausett detachment arrived; and, while he dexterously contrived to conceal himself from
Henrich, he watched him narrowly, and his eye was on him when he first became aware that English
soldiers were with the foes with whom he must contend. Then did the savage exult in the painful
struggle that he could perceive the news excited in his rival's breast, and he hoped that the
white Sachem would find some pretext for leaving the fort, and deserting to his own countrymen. The
popular Flora of the Uffizi, a beautiful thing still, though all the bloom of its beauty has
been effaced, must be placed rather later in this section of Titian's life-work, displaying
as it does a technique more facile and accomplished, and a conception
of a somewhat higher individuality.

The model is surely the same as that which has served for the Venus of the Sacred and Profane
Love, though the picture comes some years after that piece. Later still comes the so-called Alfonso
d'Este and Laura Dianti, as to which something will be said farther
on.

Another puzzle is provided by the beautiful "Noli me tangere" of the National Gallery, which
must necessarily have its place somewhere here among the early works. Giorgionesque the picture
still is, and most markedly so in the character of the beautiful
landscape; yet the execution shows an altogether unusual freedom and
mastery for that period.

The Magdalen is, appropriately enough, of the same type as the exquisite, golden blond courtezans--or,
if you will, models--who constantly appear and reappear in this period of Venetian art. Hardly
anywhere has the painter exhibited a more wonderful freedom and subtlety of brush than in the
figure of the Christ, in which glowing flesh is so finely set off by the white of fluttering,
half-transparent draperies. The canvas has exquisite colour, almost without colours; the only
local tint of any very defined character being the dark red of the Magdalen's robe. Yet a certain
affectation, a certain exaggeration of fluttering movement and strained attitude repel the beholder
a little at first, and neutralise for him the rare beauties of the canvas. It is as if a wave
of some strange transient influence had passed over Titian at this
moment, then again to be dissipated.

But to turn now once more to the series of our master's Holy Families and Sacred Conversations which
began with La Zingarella, and was continued with the Virgin and Child with SS. Ulfo and Brigida
of Madrid. The most popular of all those belonging to this still early time is the Virgin with
the Cherries in the Vienna Gallery. Here the painter is already completely himself. He will
go much farther in breadth if not in polish, in transparency, in
forcefulness, if not in attractiveness of colour; but he is now, in
sacred art at any rate, practically free from outside influences.

For the pensive girl-Madonna of Giorgione we now have the radiant young matron of Titian, joyous
yet calm in her play with the infant Christ, while the Madonna of his master and friend was
unrestful and full of tender foreboding even in seeming repose. Pretty close on this must have
followed the Madonna and Child with St. Stephen, St. Ambrose and
St. Maurice, No 439 in the Louvre, in which the rich colour-harmonies
strike a somewhat deeper note.

An atelier repetition of this fine original is No. 166 in the Vienna Gallery; the only material
variation traceable in this last-named example being that in lieu of St. Ambrose, wearing a kind
of biretta, we have St. Jerome bareheaded.

Very near in time and style to this particular series, with which it may safely be grouped,
is the beautiful and finely preserved Holy Family in the Bridgewater Gallery, where it is still erroneously
attributed to Palma Vecchio. It is to be found in the same private apartment on the groundfloor
of Bridgewater House, that contains the Three Ages. Deep glowing richness of colour and smooth perfection
without smallness of finish make this picture remarkable, notwithstanding its lack of any deeper
significance. Nor must there be forgotten in an enumeration of the early Holy Families, one of
the loveliest of all, the Madonna and Child with the infant St. John and St. Anthony Abbot,
which adorns the Venetian section of the Uffizi Gallery. Here the relationship to Giorgione
is more clearly shown than in any of these Holy Families of the first period, and in so far the
painting, which cannot be placed very early among them, constitutes
a partial exception in the series.

The Virgin is of a more refined and pensive type than in the Madonna with the Cherries of Vienna,
or the Madonna with Saints, No. 439 in the Louvre, and the divine Bambino less robust in build and
aspect. The magnificent St. Anthony is quite Giorgionesque in the serenity tinged with sadness
of his contemplative mood.

Last of all in this particular group--another work in respect of which Morelli has played the
rescuer--is the Madonna and Child with four Saints, No. 168 in the Dresden Gallery, a much-injured
but eminently Titianesque work, which may be said to bring this particular series to within a couple
of years or so of the Assunta--that great landmark of the first period
of maturity.



He had been observed by other eyes also--by eyes that recognised him, and glared with irrepressible
fury as they fell on him'. An Indian warrior approached him from behind, while he was unguardedly
pursuing his work of mercy; and Henrich saw the savage preparing to strike a deadly blow, that
would have cleft the head of the stranger in twain. Could he stand and see the noble Briton
thus fall by a secret and unresisted attack? No! every feeling and every instinct of his heart
forbad it!  One instant his tomahawk flew in a gleaming circle round his head; and the next
it fell with crushing force on the right shoulder of the savage, and sank deeply into his chest.
It was a timely blow, and saved the white man's life. But it could not save him from a severe
wound in the back, where the axe of the Indian fell heavily, as his arm dropped powerlessly
by his side--never to be raised again.

Coubitant sank on the ground; and, as he turned to look on his unexpected assailant, his blood-shot
eyes met those of Henrich, and glared fiercely, first at him, and then at his intended victim,
whose life had been so strangely preserved. They stood side by side, unconscious of the tie
that bound them so closely together. Coubitant knew it well; and he felt in this awful moment
that Mahneto had, in righteous retribution, sent the son to preserve the father's life from
the hand of him who had hated both alike.  He hated them still: and, even with his dying breath,
he would not reveal the secret that would have united those seemingly hostile warriors in the
embrace of deep affection.

Rodolph had not seen the friend whose timely aid had partially averted the deadly blow that
had been aimed at him by the savage.  But, on turning round, he was astonished to perceive
that his foe and his avenger were apparently of the same party. The latter--whose countenance
expressed the deepest indignation, and who was raising his bloody hatchet from the prostrate
form of the wounded Indian--was evidently not one of the allies of the English; and his dress
and ornaments, and air of dignified command, indicated him to be a Chief among his own people.
Why, then, had he come to the aid of an enemy?

Rodolph gazed inquiringly at the fine countenance of the young Sachem, which was now bent upon
the dying Indian at his feet.

'Coubitant!' he exclaimed in the Nausett tongue, ‘is it, indeed, you whom I have thus slain
unknowingly? You have been a bitter and an untiring enemy to me; but it was not for this that
I smote thee to the earth. I knew you not. But I saw you aim a cowardly blow at the white chief;
and I saved him. I forgive you now for all your hatred, and all your evil designs, which Mahneto
has thus recompensed upon your own head.'

'I ask not your forgiveness,' replied the savage in a deep, struggling voice--for the hand
of death was on him, and the dark fire of his eye was waning out. 'In death, I hate and defy
you! And in death I enjoy a revenge that you know not of.'

He strove to raise his hand in menace, but it fell to the ground; and, with a groan of suppressed
agony, he expired.

The fight was raging with unabated violence, and the conflagration had already spread to the
farthest end of the fortress. Henrich looked around for his comrades, who were bravely contending
with their powerful foes at some distance, and he hastily prepared to join them. But, as he
turned away, he courteously waved his hand to Rodolph, and said in the English language, but
with an Indian accent,

'Farewell, brave Englishman!'

Rodolph started. That voice had thrilled through his heart when it had spoken a strange language:
but now it struck upon him with a sense of familiarity that be could not account for, as the
Indian Chief was evidently an utter stranger to him. He returned his parting salutation and
'farewell'; but still he watched his retreating form, and thought he distinctly heard him utter
the name 'Rodolph!' as a large dog, which had stood near him during their brief encounter,
bounded after him over foe heaps of slain and dying.

'Surely it was my own fancy that conjured up that name,' thought Rodolph. The next moment he
found himself compelled again to join the conflict, and, at the head of his little band, to
fight his way out of the fortress, which was rapidly becoming a prey to the devouring flames.
All the English withdrew outside the palisades, and thickly surrounded the fort; while their
Indian allies, who had hitherto kept aloof, now took courage to approach, and form a second
circle outside. The most furious despair now took possession of the souls of the devoted Pequodees:
and their terrible war-cry was heard resounding high, and mingled with the agonising yells
of the women and children, and helpless aged men, who were expiring amid the flames. Many of
the warriors climbed the palisades, and leaped down among their foes, hoping to escape; but
they were quickly despatched by the muskets and bayonets of the English; or if any had power
to break through the first hostile line, they fell beneath the battle-axes of the Mohicans.

Rodolph had received a considerable wound, but it had not entirely disabled him.  At the head
of his men he passed through the open gate of the fortress, and attempted still to lead and
command them. He found, however that his strength was failing, and that he could no longer
wield his good broad sword. He therefore stood leaning on it, and watching, with mingled feelings
of pity and horror, the progress of the work of destruction.

Presently he saw a side entrance to the fort thrown suddenly open, and the form of the Indian
Chief--whose tomahawk had saved his life, and whose voice had awakened such strange feelings--appeared
rushing forth. He was attended by another striking looking warrior, and followed by a band
of determined natives, who were resolved to escape, or sell their lives dearly.

Rodolph's men, who occupied the position opposite to that gate, raised their muskets to fire
on these brave men; but their commander loudly and authoritatively bade them desist.

'Hold! I command you!' he exclaimed. 'Let that noble Chieftain escape, and all his attendants
for his sake. He saved my life in the fort; and death to the man who injures him!

He attempted to rush forward to enforce his orders, but pain and loss of blond prevented him
from moving; and he would have fallen but for the support of one of his comrades.

Meanwhile, Henrich and Jyanough, and their band of Nausetts, had rushed through the unopposing
ranks of the English, and were now contending desperately with the Indian line beyond. The
British troops paused, and looked after them; and the sympathy that brave men feel for each
other prevented any of them from attempting to pursue or molest them. On the contrary, all
now wished them success.

With breathless anxiety Rodolph gazed after them, and watched the towering plumes that adorned
the noble head of the Sachem, as he bore onward through the opposing crowd of Indians. He passed,
and gained the plain beyond, attended by his followers; and, from the elevated position at
which the fort was erected, Rodolph could still watch the little band retiring, until the Indian
heroes were hidden from view by a thicket.

So fiercely had the fire seconded the efforts of the English that the whole conflict only lasted
one hour. In that brief space of time, between five and six hundred Indians--young and old,
men and women-- were destroyed by fire and sword; and the small remainder were made prisoners
of war by the English, or carried off as prizes by the hostile natives. What gives to it that singular
power of enchanting the eye and enthralling the spirit, the one in perfect agreement with the
other, is perhaps above all its unity, not only of design, but of tone, of informing sentiment. Perfectly
satisfying balance and interconnection of the two main groups just stops short of too obvious
academic grace--the well-ordered movement, the sweeping rhythm so well serving to accentuate the
mournful harmony which envelops the sacred personages, bound together
by the bond of the same great sorrow, and from them communicates itself,
as it were, to the beholder.

In the colouring, while nothing jars or impairs the concert of the tints taken as a whole, each
one stands out, affirming, but not noisily asserting, its own splendour and its own special significance.
And yet the yellow of the Magdalen's dress, the deep green of the coat making ruddier the embrowned
flesh of sturdy Joseph of Arimathea, the rich shot crimson of Nicodemus's garment, relieved
with green and brown, the chilling white of the cloth which supports the wan limbs of Christ,
the blue of the Virgin's robe, combine less to produce the impression of great pictorial magnificence
than to heighten that of solemn pathos, of portentous tragedy.

Of the frescoes executed by Titian for Doge Andrea Gritti in the Doge's
chapel in 1524 no trace now remains.

They consisted of a lunette about the altar,[48] with the Virgin and Child between St. Nicholas
and the kneeling Doge, figures of the four Evangelists on either side of the altar, and in
the lunette above the entrance St. Mark seated on a lion.
 They stamped and howled with rage and grief, and madly tore their hair; while
they gave vent to their excited feelings in that fearful and peculiar yell, at the sound of
which the stoutest hearts might quail. Then, with a wild and desperate effort at revenge, they
rushed down the bill in pursuit of their cruel enemies. The rear- guard turned, and met the
onset bravely. The savages were received with a shower of bullets, which checked their furious
assault; but they hung on the rear of the English, and harassed them during the whole of their
retreat.  They, however, reached their vessels in safety, and arrived in triumph at Hartford,
from which port they had sailed three weeks before.

This discomfiture proved a death-blow to the pride and power of the redoubted Sassacus. Disgusted
alike by his arrogance, and by his recent defeat, many of his own warriors deserted him and
attached themselves to other tribes; and the Sachem then destroyed his second fortress, end
carried off his treasure to the land of the Mohawks, near the river Hudson, and, with his principal
Chiefs, joined that warlike race.

