APPRENTICING AND ADOPTION OF CHILDREN. Method of apprenticing--Schooling and treatment of minors--Who
may adopt--Method and effect of adoption--Home for the friendless--Powers

CHAPTER VII.

WILLS AND LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION. Who may make wills--Of what property--Verbal wills--Wills
in writing--Revocation--Cancellation--Executors--Administration--Who entitled--Time allowed

CHAPTER VIII.

SETTLEMENT OF THE ESTATE--DESCENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROPERTY. Exempt personal property--Life
insurance--Allowance to widow and children--Descent and distribution--Personal property--Real
property--Dower--Curtesy--Widow's share not affected by will--Descent to children--To parents--To
wife and her heirs--Illegitimate children inherit from mother--When they may inherit from father--When
father may inherit from child

CHAPTER IX.

HOMESTEAD AND EXEMPTIONS. Homestead exempt--Family defined--Conveyance or encumbrance--Liability
for taxes and debts--What constitutes homestead--Exemptions to head of family--Insurance--Personal
earnings--Pension money--Damages producing death

CHAPTER X.

CRIMINAL LAW--ILLEGITIMATE CHILDREN. Rape--Intent to commit--Compelling to marry--Carnal knowledge--Producing
miscarriage--Enticing female child--Seduction--Marriage a bar to prosecution--Adultery--Evidence
in cases of rape or seduction--Bigamy--Lewdness--Houses of ill fame--Penalty for prostitution--Incest--Illegitimate
children--Support of--Rendered legitimate by marriage of parents

CHAPTER XI.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. Damages under prohibitory liquor law--Parties in actions for seduction--In
actions for injury to minor child--Married women--When husband or wife deserts family--Husband
or wife as witness--Communications between husband and wife--Women eligible to office--Police
matrons--Right of suffrage

CHAPTER XII.

CONCLUSION. Common law in Iowa--Law will not always protect married women--It may cause hardship
and suffering--Change or modification needed

Common Law

CHAPTER I.

SYNOPSIS OF COMMON LAW.

[Sidenote: Common law in force.]

Until a comparatively recent period the laws of England in force at the time of the independence
of the American colonies, relating to married women, the mutual duties of husband and wife,
their property rights and the care and custody of children, were everywhere in force in this
country except in those states which were originally settled by other nations than the English.

[Sidenote: Changes.]

The agitation of the last fifty years, caused by the demand for equality in educational opportunities
and in professional, business and trade relations, as well as for the legal and political recognition
of women, has brought about great changes in these laws, until they are in many instances almost
entirely superseded by statutory enactments more in accordance with the spirit of justice and
in greater harmony with the requirements of a higher form of civilization. In many states they
have reached a condition in which the legal status of husband and wife is nearly, if not wholly,
one of equality.

[Sidenote: Basis of statue law.]

It must always be borne in mind, however, that the common law is the foundation upon which
almost the entire structure of our American system of jurisprudence is based, although it is
claimed that it has only been recognized by our courts so far as it has been "applicable to
the habits and conditions of our society and in harmony with the genius, spirit and objects
of our institutions." As it became apparent from time to time that it was not thus applicable,
or where it failed to meet the requirements of the changed conditions of society the strictness
of its rules was relaxed by giving to them a broader construction, or, when this could not
be done, they were modified or entirely changed by statute. 

"Where are they now?" he asked himself, sadly.

"Some are wanderers on the face of the earth, in comic operas. Two of them found ignoble graves
in the 'Tourists'' company. Others are sleeping beneath the daisies in Harper's 'Editor's Drawer.'"
 This was called the age of consent, or discretion, and a marriage contracted
prior to this time was inchoate only, and might be repudiated by either party upon arriving
at the legal age. If one of the parties was above and the other under the required age, the
marriage might still be disaffirmed by either. If after reaching the age of consent the parties
continued to live together as husband and wife, this would be regarded as an affirmance of
the marriage.

[Sidenote: What constitutes.]

The mutual consent of the parties themselves, followed by cohabitation, was sufficient to constitute
a legal marriage, without the observance of any formalities. The formal ceremonies provided
by statute for the celebration of marriages, and the penalties imposed upon clergymen and others
who married those who had not complied with these formalities, were solely for the purpose
of providing a convenient and certain proof of marriage, should it be afterwards necessary
to establish that fact by evidence, rather than to invalidate marriages which would otherwise
be legal.

[Sidenote: Dissolution of marriage.]

Having established the marriage relation, it could only be dissolved by death or divorce granted
by act of parliament, or, in this country after the declaration of independence, by act of
legislature. No absolute divorce could be granted for any cause arising after the marriage,
but a separation might be decreed in case of adultery by either party.

[Sidenote: Subjection of married women.]

By the rules of the common law, the person and property of women were under the absolute control
of their husbands. The maxim, Uxor non est juris, sed sub potestate viri, "a wife is not her
own mistress, but is under the power of her husband," is but an expression of the actual legal
status of a woman from the instant she entered the matrimonial state, until released therefrom
by death or divorce.

[Sidenote: Legally dead.]

Marriage was the act by which she ceased to have a legal existence, by which, we are told,
her very being became incorporated or consolidated into that of her husband. From the time
her identity became thus merged, she was presumed by the law to be under the protection and
influence of her husband, to be so absolutely and entirely one person with him, that she had
henceforth no life in law apart from his.

[Sidenote: Unity of person.]

The legal fiction of the unity of the persons of husband and wife dates back to feudal times,
and may, perhaps, have been a necessity of the age and of the peculiar social and political
systems of that period. Like many another law having its inception in a sincere desire to secure
the greatest good to the greatest number, and apparently necessary for that purpose at the
period of social development which gave it birth, it existed for centuries after it had ceased
to result in any benefit or afford any protection, and after the reason for its being had passed
away and been forgotten.

[Sidenote: Power of husband.]

We are told that at marriage the husband "adopted his wife and her circumstances together."
He might exercise his power over her person by restraining her of her liberty in case of gross
misbehavior, or by giving her moderate chastisement in the same degree that he might administer
correction to his children. An early decision of one of our state courts interpreted this to
mean that a man might whip his wife with a switch as large as his finger, but not larger than
his thumb, without being guilty of an assault.

[Sidenote: Disabilities.]

Husband and wife being one person could not contract nor enter into a business partnership
with each other; neither could one convey property to the other without the intervention of
a third party. The wife was incapable of receiving a legacy unless it was willed to another
person as trustee, for her use and benefit, and if a legacy were paid directly to her, the
husband could compel the executor to pay it again to him.

[Sidenote: Wife's power to contract.]

The wife had no power to contract a legal debt nor to bind herself by any kind of an agreement,
neither could she make her husband liable for any debt or contract, except for necessaries. "You're
hardly strong enough to go on to-night," said a Merry Jest, touching him kindly on the arm; but
the gray-bearded one shook him off, saying hoarsely:

"Let be!

Let be!

I must read those old lines once more--it may be for the last time."


[Sidenote: Wife's earnings.]

Her earnings though acquired by her individual labor and in a business separate and apart from
her husband belonged to him, and he could collect them by action. This was the law though husband
and wife were living apart. They could be subjected to the payment of his debts, by his creditors,
and if he died without a will they descended to his heirs as other personal property. They
were not considered the property of the wife, even in equity, without a clear, express, irrevocable
gift, or some distinct affirmative act of the husband, divesting himself of them and setting
them apart for her separate use.

[Sidenote: Power of conveyance and devise.]

A wife had no power to convey her real property, nor could she devise her personal property
by will, without the consent of her husband.

[Sidenote: Domicile.]

The husband had the legal right to establish his home or domicile in any part of the world
where "his interests, his tastes, his convenience, or possibly, his caprice might suggest,"
and it was the wife's duty to follow him. If she refused to accompany him, no matter upon what
ground she based her refusal, she was guilty of desertion. A promise by the husband before
marriage as to the establishment of the place of residence of the family, created a moral obligation
only and was a mere nullity in law. Whenever there was a difference of opinion between husband
and wife in regard to the location of the common home, the will of the wife had to yield to
that of the husband. This law of domicile was based upon the grounds of the "identity of the
husband and wife, the subjection of the wife to the husband, and the duty of the wife to make
her home with her husband."

[Sidenote: Witness.]

Neither husband nor wife was competent as a witness to testify either for or against the other
in civil or criminal cases.

[Sidenote: Husband entitled to society of wife.]

The husband was entitled to the society and services of his wife and he might bring an action
for damages against anyone who harbored her, or persuaded or enticed her to leave him or live
separate from him. If injuries were wrongfully inflicted upon her, two actions might be brought
against the party responsible for the wrong, one by husband and wife for the personal injury
to the wife, and one by the husband for loss of the wife's services. In either case, the amount
recovered belonged to the husband.

[Sidenote: Suits at law.]

The wife could neither sue or be sued unless her husband was joined with her in the suit. A
judgment recovered against her alone was void, because she was unknown to the law apart from
her husband. One entered in her favor became the property of her husband.

[Sidenote: Wife as executor.]

The consent of the husband was necessary to enable a married woman to act as executor, administrator,
guardian or trustee.

[Sidenote: Duty of husband.]

[Sidenote: Liable for anti-nuptial contracts.]

[Sidenote: Torts of wife.]

The husband became responsible for the maintenance of the wife according to her rank and station,
and if he failed to make suitable provision for her, tradesmen might furnish her with necessaries
at her request and could collect payment from the husband. He was liable for all of her debts
contracted before marriage, and this was the case, though he may have received no property
with her. He was responsible for certain wrongs committed by her after marriage, such as libel
and slander, and judgment could be recovered against him. If a wrong were committed jointly
by both, action might be brought against the husband alone. When a judgment was recovered upon
contract, or because of the wrongful act of the wife, if the husband failed to pay it, he might
be imprisoned.

[Sidenote: Widow's quarantine.]

After the death of the husband the law gave the widow a right to remain forty days in his house,
during which time her dower might be assigned. This right was known as the "widow's quarantine."

[Sidenote: Custody of children.]

The father was legally entitled to the custody of his children,--the right of the mother was
never recognized, it being expressly stated by Blackstone that "a mother, as such, is entitled
to no power, but only to reverence and respect." He might by will appoint a guardian for them
after his death, though yet unborn, and might apprentice them or give them into the custody
of others without the consent of the mother.

[Sidenote: Property rights.]

[Sidenote: Wife's paraphernalia]

All personal property belonging to the wife vested absolutely in the husband at marriage. He
could will it to whom he pleased or, if he died without a will, it descended to his heirs.
Even her wearing apparel and ornaments known by the term "paraphernalia," belonged to the husband.
During his life he had the power to sell or give them away, but he could not devise them by
will. If they remained in the possession of the wife while the husband lived, she was entitled
to them over and above her dower, but even then creditors of the husband might claim them,
if there chanced to be a deficiency of other assets with which to pay the debts of the estate.

[Sidenote: Choses in action.]

The wife's choses in action, or evidences of money or property due to her, such as notes, bonds,
contracts or the like, belonged to the husband if he reduced them to possession during her
life, and they could be taken for his debts. He might bequeath them by will, but if he died
without a will they descended to his heirs. If he failed to reduce them to possession while
the wife lived, after his death they would revert to her heirs. If she outlived her husband
they belonged to her. After the husband's death the wife took one-third of his personal estate
if there were children, and one-half if there were no children.

[Sidenote: Real property of wife.]

[Sidenote: Curtesy.]

[Sidenote: Dower.]

The husband was entitled to the control, use and enjoyment, together with the rents and profits
of his wife's real estate during the marriage, and if a living child were born, he had, after
the wife's death, a life estate in such property and might retain possession of it while he
lived. This was known as the husband's title by curtsy. The wife took a dower, or life estate
in one-third of the husband's lands after his death, whether there were children or not. This
estate of dower was forfeited should the husband be found guilty of treason, but his interest
in her lands was not disturbed by the treason of the wife. His life interest in her real estate
attached to trust estates, but she could claim no interest in trust estates of her husband.
If the wife owned leases of land they could be sold or assigned by the husband during marriage.
If he survived his wife they belonged to him, if she survived him, they belonged to her, provided
he had not disposed of them while living.

[Sidenote: Descent of property.]

Personal property descended to males and females in equal shares, but the oldest son was entitled
to the whole of his father's real property.

[Sidenote: Unity of person in criminal law.]

The unity of husband and wife was not so strongly affirmed by the common law when it dealt
with their relation to criminal matters. When a wife committed an offense against the state
she possessed a separate and distinct life and personalty, for the purposes of punishment.
It is true that she was still inferior and this distinction was recognized and emphasized by
the difference in the penalties imposed for the commission of the same crimes, these penalties
being in inverse ratio to the importance of the criminal.

[Sidenote: Theft, burglary, etc.]

[Sidenote: Presumption of innocence.]

If a wife committed theft, burglary or other offenses in the company or presence of her husband,
the law presumed that she acted under compulsion and held her not guilty, but this presumption
did not extend to cases of murder or treason, and it might always be overcome by proof that
she acted independently. The exception in cases of murder or treason, we are informed, was
not alone because of the magnitude of the crimes, but rather on account of "the husband having
broken through the most sacred tie of social community by rebellion against the state, had
no right to that obedience from a wife which he himself, as a subject, had forgotten to pay."

[Sidenote: Murder of wife.]

[Sidenote: Murder of husband.]

If a man murdered his wife it was as if he had murdered a stranger, and he might avail himself
of the benefit of clergy, and secure immunity from punishment, provided he could read, but
women were denied all benefit of clergy because of their sex, and because they "were not called
upon to read." If a wife killed her husband it was a much more serious offense, he being her
lord, and she was guilty of treason and subject to the same punishment as if she had killed
the king.

[Sidenote: Petit treason.]

In cases of petit treason the penalty depended upon the sex of the criminal, men being sentenced
to be drawn and hanged, while women were drawn and burnt alive.

[Sidenote: Larceny, bigamy, etc.]

In larceny, bigamy, manslaughter and other crimes, men might claim the benefit of clergy and
by taking holy orders, escape all punishment, except branding in the hand and a few months
imprisonment, while women might receive sentence of death and be executed for the first offense.
Later the law was changed so that in cases of simple larceny under the value of ten shillings,
they might be burned in the hand and whipped, stocked or imprisoned for any time not exceeding
one year. He had never done me any harm, but I could hear of his sayin' around in the naborhood
that Bill Arp had played cock of the walk long enuf.

So one day I went over to Chulio court ground to joak with the boys,
and shore enuf Jim was there, and I soon perseeved that the devil
was in him.

He had never been whipped by anybody in the distrikt, and he outweighed
me by about fifteen pounds.

A drink or two had made him sassy, and so he commenced walkin' around first to one crowd, and
then to another, darin' anybody to fite him. He would pint to his forrerd and say, "I'll give
anybody five dollars to hit that." I was standin' tawkin' to Frank Air and John Johnsin, and
as nobody took up Jim's offer, thinks says I to myself, if he cums round here a huntin' for a
fite he shall have one, by golly.


[Sidenote: Right of appeal.]

Magna Charta, granted by King John, while redressing many hardships and grievances incident
to feudal times, and confirming and securing to the people many rights and liberties, among
which was the right of the wife to dower in her husband's property, denied to women the right
of appeal except in case of the death of their husbands. The right of appeal was the privilege
of private prosecution for crime. (Analogus to our present method of commencing prosecutions
by information.)

According to Blackstone, even the disabilities of the wife were for the most part intended
for her protection and benefit, and he adds: "So great a favorite is the female sex of the
laws of England!"

[Sidenote: Reason for discrimination.]

The discrimination made by the common law between men and women, was based alone upon the assumption
that women were, and must be always dependent by reason of their sex. In the light of a broader
humanity, the distinctions seem cruel and barbarous, but that they were the result of any spirit
of injustice or intentional tyranny, or of any desire on the part of men to oppress women or
impose upon them any hardship or burden because of their physical weakness, is not at all probable.
They were merely the outgrowth of the conditions incident to ruder stages of social development,
and were, perhaps, as favorable to women at that period, as the laws of our own times will
be considered when judged in the light of the civilization of the future, after successive
centuries of intellectual and moral growth have been added to the enlightenment of to-day.

Law of Iowa.

CHAPTER II.

MARRIAGE.

[Sidenote: Contract.]

Marriage is a civil contract requiring the consent of parties capable of entering into other
contracts, except as herein otherwise declared. [§3376.] While marriage is defined to be a
contract, it is rather a status or relation assumed by the act of marriage. Society is recognized
as a third party to the agreement and as having a well defined interest in the duties and obligations
of such relation. It is because of this interest, that the law defines the qualifications of
the parties, the terms, rights and obligations of the contract, and also for what causes and
in what manner it may be terminated. "It stands alone and can be assimilated to no other contract."

[Sidenote: Between what ages valid.]

A marriage between a male person of sixteen and a female of fourteen years of age is valid,
but if either party has not attained the age thus fixed, the marriage is a nullity or not at
the option of such party made known at any time before he or she is six months older than the
age thus fixed. [§3377.] The common law rule fixing the age of consent to marriage at fourteen
for males and twelve for females is not repealed in Iowa. The time in which the parties may
disaffirm the marriage is merely extended by the statute.

[Sidenote: License.]

Previous to any marriage within this state, a license for that purpose must be obtained from
the clerk of the district court of the county wherein the marriage is to be solemnized. [§3378.]
As under the common law, no express form or ceremony is necessary to constitute a valid marriage,
any mutual agreement between the parties to assume the relation of husband and wife, followed
by cohabitation, being sufficient, provided there is no legal disability on the part of either
existing at the time. It is immaterial how the intention to marry is expressed. It has been
held in this state that a marriage was legal, where the woman intended present marriage, though
the man did not, where they had assumed the relation of husband and wife, and his conduct had
been such as to justify her in believing that he had intended present marriage. Marriages by
consent only, are not rendered void by a provision punishing parties for solemnizing marriages
in any other manner than that prescribed by law.

[Sidenote: Under age.]

[Sidenote: Consent of parent.]

Such license must not in any case be granted where either party is under the age necessary
to render the marriage absolutely valid, nor shall it be granted where either party is a minor,
without the previous consent of the parent or guardian of such minor, nor where the condition
of either party is such as to disqualify him from making any other civil contract. [§3379.]

[Sidenote: Proof of age.]

Unless such clerk is acquainted with the age and condition of the parties for the marriage
of whom the license is applied for, he must take the testimony of competent and disinterested
witnesses on the subject. [§3380.]

[Sidenote: Record.]

He must cause due entry of the application for the issuing of the license to be made in a book
to be procured and kept for that purpose, stating that he was acquainted with the parties and
knew them to be of competent age and condition, or that the requisite proof of such fact was
made known to him by one or more witnesses, stating their names, which book shall constitute
a part of the records of his office. [§3381.]

[Sidenote: Proof of consent of parent.]

If either party is a minor, the consent of the parent or guardian must be filed in the clerk's
office after being acknowledged by the said parent or guardian, or proved to be genuine, and
a memorandum of such facts must also be entered in said book. [§3382.]

[Sidenote: Penalty.]

If the clerk of the district court grants a license contrary to the provisions of the preceding
sections, he is guilty of a misdemeanor, and if a marriage is solemnized without such license
being procured, the parties so married and all persons aiding in such marriage are likewise
guilty of a misdemeanor. [§3883.]

The punishment provided for misdemeanors is imprisonment in the county jail not more than one
year, or by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by both fine and imprisonment.

[Sidenote: Who may solemnize.]

Marriages must be solemnized either:

1. By a justice of the peace or mayor of the city or incorporated town wherein the marriage
takes place;

2. By some judge of the supreme or district court of this state;

3. By some officiating minister of the gospel ordained or licensed according to the usages
of his denomination. [§3384.]

[Sidenote: Certificate]

After the marriage has been solemnized the officiating minister or magistrate shall, on request,
give each of the parties a certificate thereof. [§3385.]

[Sidenote: Penalty.]

Marriages solemnized with the consent of parties in any other manner than is herein prescribed,
are valid, but the parties themselves, and all other parties aiding or abetting, shall forfeit
to the school fund the sum of fifty dollars each. [§3386.]

[Sidenote: Return.]

The person solemnizing marriage shall forfeit a like amount, unless within ninety days after
the ceremony he shall make return thereof to the clerk of the district court. [§3387.]

[Sidenote: Register of marriages.]

The clerk of the district court shall keep a register containing the names of the parties,
the date of the marriage, and the name of the person by whom the marriage was solemnized, which,
or a certified transcript therefrom, is receivable in all courts and places as evidence of
the marriage and the date thereof. [§3388] The register of marriages kept by the clerk is always
sufficient to establish marriage, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, but record evidence
is not indispensable. The fact of marriage may be shown in various ways. It may be proved by
the admissions or uncontradicted testimony of either party, or a legal presumption may be raised
by the testimony of either husband or wife with proof of continued cohabitation. The evidence
of witnesses who were present and witnessed the marriage is always sufficient.

[Sidenote: Peculiar mode.]

These provisions so far as they relate to procuring licenses and to the solemnizing of marriages,
are not applicable to members of any particular denomination having, as such, any peculiar
mode of entering the marriage relation [§3389].

[Sidenote: Husband responsible for return.]

But when any mode is thus pursued which dispenses with the services of a clergyman or magistrate,
the husband is responsible for the return directed to be made to the clerk and is liable to
the above named penalty if the return is not made [§3390].

[Sidenote: When void.]

Marriages between persons whose marriage is prohibited by law, or who have a husband or wife
living, are void; but if the parties live and cohabit together after the death of the former
husband or wife, such marriage shall be deemed valid [§3392]. A judicial decree is not necessary
to annul a marriage between parties one of whom has a wife or husband living at the time, as
such marriages are absolutely void, nor does such marriage confer any right upon either in
the property of the other. A marriage procured by fraud or force is void, because it lacks
the essential element of consent. Such marriages may be annulled by a court of equity, but
false representations as to character, social position or fortune do not constitute such fraud
on the opposite party as to avoid a marriage induced thereby.

CHAPTER III.

HUSBAND AND WIFE

[Sidenote: Property rights of married women.]

A married woman may own in her own right, real and personal property acquired by descent, gift
or purchase, and manage, sell, convey, and devise the same by will, to the same extent and
in the same manner that the husband can property belonging to him. [§3393.] The husband is
the legal head of the family and household furniture, pictures and all similar property used
in the house occupied by husband and wife, is considered as being in the possession of the
husband and under his control. Such property may be sold or mortgaged by the husband without
the consent of the wife. Property conveyed to both jointly is held by them as tenants-in-common.
Each owns an undivided one-half interest in such property, and this interest may be sold on
execution to satisfy claims against husband or wife as the case may be. Property purchased
with funds belonging to both husband and wife is owned by them jointly, the interest of each
being in proportion to the amount of the purchase price contributed by each.

[Sidenote: Real property, Conveyance, or contract.]

A married woman may convey or encumber any real estate or interest therein belonging to her,
and may control the same, or contract with reference thereto, to the same extent, and in the
same manner as other persons [§3106].

[Sidenote: Conveyance by husband and wife.]

Every conveyance made by a husband and wife shall be deemed sufficient to pass any and all
right of either to the property conveyed, unless the contrary appears on the face of the conveyance
[§3107]. While Iowa was still a territory, in 1840, power was conferred upon a married woman
to release her dower and to convey her real estate by any conveyance executed by herself and
husband and acknowledged by a separate examination and acknowledgment. This law was re-enacted
in 1846, and was the first law passed in the State of Iowa for the better protection of married
women. This remained the law until 1851, when an act was passed by which she might convey her
interest in real estate "the same as any other person."

[Sidenote: Interest of either in other's property.]

When property is owned by either the husband or wife, the other has no interest therein which
can be the subject of contract between them, or such interest as will make the same liable
for the contracts or liabilities of either the husband or wife who is not the owner of the
property, except as provided in this chapter. [§3394.] The distributive share or dower interest
of each in the property of the other, is inchoate and becomes complete only upon the death
of the owner of the property; consequently any agreement between the husband and wife relinquishing
their respective interests in each other's property, though such agreement should be made in
contemplation of separation is invalid. Upon a dissolution of the marriage relation by divorce,
the husband and wife may contract with each other with reference to a division of the property,
provided the contract is reasonable, just and right. A husband may pay taxes and interest on
an incumbrance on a homestead owned by his wife, but occupied by both, and may make repairs
upon the same. He may make improvements on land owned by the wife and may expend time and labor
in caring for any of her property, without rendering such property liable for his debts, provided
there is no collusion between them and no evidence of fraud on the part of either.

A wife's property cannot be taken for her husbands debts, although it may be in possession
of the husband and the creditors have no notice of the wife's ownership.

[Sidenote: Remedy by one against the other.]

Should either the husband or wife obtain possession or control of property belonging to the
other, either before or after marriage, the owner of the property may maintain an action therefor,
or for any right growing out of the same, in the same manner and extent as if they were unmarried.
[§3395.] If property or money belonging to the wife, but in possession of the husband is used
by him, with her knowledge and consent, in the payment of debts incurred for family expenses,
or for other purposes connected with the support of the family, she cannot recover for the
same, in the absence of an express agreement on his part to repay her. If a wife advances money
or property to her husband to be used as he may choose, the presumption is that she does so
in view of the mutual benefits which may accrue from the advancement and she cannot recover
the same unless there is an agreement for its repayment.

[Sidenote: Husband not liable for wife's torts.]

For all civil injuries committed by a married woman, damages may be recovered from her alone,
and her husband shall not be responsible therefor except in cases where he would be jointly
responsible with her if the marriage did not exist [§3396.] This statute abrogates the rule
of the common law, making a husband responsible for civil injuries committed by his wife. The
common law presumption that criminal acts done in the presence of the husband were by compulsion,
is still recognized in this State but may be overcome by proof to the contrary.

[Sidenote: Conveyances to each other valid.]

[Sidenote: Conveyances to third parties.]

