Corumba contains a few stores of all descriptions, but it would seem that the stock in trade
of the chemist is very low, for I overheard a conversation between two women one day, who said
they could not get this or that--in fact, "he only keeps cures for stabs and such like things."
In the armazems liquors are sold, and rice, salt and beans despatched to the customer by the
pint. Why wine and milk are not sold by the pound I did not enquire.

One is not to ask too much in Brazil, or offence is given. When seated at table one day with
a comrade, who had the misfortune to swallow a bone, I quietly "swallowed" the remedy a Brazilian
told us of. He said their custom was for all to turn away their heads, while the unfortunate
one revolved his plate around three times to the left, and presto! the bone disappeared. My
friend did not believe in the cure; consequently, he suffered for several days.

I have said that dogs are numerous. These animals roam the streets by day and night in packs
and fight and tear at anyone or anything. Some days before we arrived there were even more,
but a few pounds of poison had been scattered about the streets--which, by the way, are the
worst of any town I have ever entered--and the dog population of the world decreased nine hundred.
This is the Corumba version. Perhaps the truth is, nine hundred feet, or, as we count, two
hundred and twenty-five dogs. In the interests of humanity, I hope the number was nine hundred
heads. Five carts then patrolled the streets and carried away to the outskirts those dead dogs,
which were there burnt. I, the writer, find the latter part of the story hardest to believe.
Why should a freeborn Brazilian lift dogs out of the street? In what better place could they
be? They would fill up the holes and ruts, and, in such intense heat, why do needless work?

Corumba is a typical Brazilian town. Little carts, drawn by a string of goats or rams, thread
their way through the streets. Any animal but the human must do the work. As the majority of
the people go barefooted, the patriarchal custom prevails of having water offered on entering
a house to wash the feet. At all hours of the day men, women and children seek to cool themselves
in the river, which is here a mile wide, and with a depth of 20 feet in the channel. While
on the subject of bathing, I might mention that a wooden image of the patron saint of the town
is, with great pomp, brought down at the head of a long procession, once every year, to receive
his annual "duck" in the water. This is supposed to benefit him much. After his immersion,
all the inhabitants, men, women and children, make a rush to be the first to dip in the "blessed
water," for, by doing this, all their sins are forgiven them for a year to come. The sick are
careful to see that they are not left in the position of the unfortunate one mentioned in the
Gospel by John, who "had no one to put him into the pool."

I have also known the Virgin solemnly carried down to the water's edge, that she might command
it to rise or fall, as suited the convenience of the people. The mother is detained at the station,
but the children are taken to the society, where they are washed, fed, and for the first time
in their lives, perhaps, put to sleep in a bed. On the following day, the children are taken to
court.

If the parents or guardians are worthy, they are returned to them; if not, the justice commits
them to some charitable institution. Some of these have a religious character, and others a secular
one; the American judge, in rendering his decision, is influenced by interests of family, of
nationality, of race, or of religion of the child, as well as by the requirements of the law.
Sick children and nursing infants are sent to the hospital on Randall's Island, the Ladies' Deborah
Nursery, and the Child's Hospital.
 Does he pass it over, believing, with many, that imitation is the sincerest
form of flattery?

Whatever Roman Catholicism is in other parts of the world, in South America it is pure Mariolatry.
The creed, as we have seen, reads: "Mary must be our first object of worship, Saint Joseph
the second." Along with these, saints, living and dead, are numberless.

A traveller in South Brazil thus writes of a famous monk: "There, in a shed at the back of
a small farm, half sitting, half reclining on a mat and a skin of some wild animal, was a man
of about seventy years of age, in a state of nudity. A small piece of red blanket was thrown
over his shoulders, barely covering them. His whole body was encrusted with filth, and his
nails had grown like claws. His vacant look showed him to be a poor, helpless idiot. Beside
him a large wood fire was kept burning. The ashes of this fire, strewn around him for the sake
of cleanliness, are carried away for medicinal purposes by the thousands of pilgrims who visit
him. Men and women come from long distances to see him, in the full persuasion that he is a
holy man and has miraculous powers." [Footnote: "The Neglected Continent"] Romanism is thus
seen to be in a double sense "a moral pestilence."

The church is, of course, very much in evidence in Corumba, for it is a very religious place.
A missa cantata is often held there, when a noisy brass band will render dance music, often
at the moat solemn parts. The drums frequently beat until the worshippers are almost deafened.

In the town of Bom Fim, a little further north, the priest runs a "show" opposite his church,
and over it are printed the words, "Theatre of the Holy Ghost."

Think, O intelligent reader, how dense must be the darkness of Papal America when a church
notice, which anyone may see affixed to the door, reads:

RAFFLE FOB SOULS.

A raffle for souls will be held at this Church on January 1st, at which four bleeding and tortured
souls will be released from purgatory to heaven, according to the four highest tickets in this
most holy lottery. Tickets, $1.00. To be had of the father in charge. Will you, for the poor
sum of one dollar, leave your loved ones to burn in purgatory for ages?

At the last raffle for souls, the following numbers obtained the prize, and the lucky holders
may be assured that their loved ones are forever released from the flames of purgatory: Ticket
4l.--The soul of Madame Coldern is made happy for ever. Ticket 762.--The soul of the aged widow,
Francesca de Parson, is forever released from the flames of purgatory. Ticket 84l.--The soul
of Lawyer Vasquez is released from purgatory and ushered into heavenly joys. [Footnote: "Gospel
Message."]

But, my reader asks, "Do the people implicitly believe all the priest says?" No, sometimes
they say, "Show us a sign." This was especially true of the people living on the Chili-Bolivian
border. The wily, yet progressive, priest there made a number of little balloons, which on
a certain day of the year were sent up into the sky, bearing away the sins of the people. Of
course, when the villagers saw their sins float away before their own eyes, enclosed in little
crystal spheres, such as could not be earthly, they believed and rejoiced. Yes, reader, the
South American priest is alive to his position after all, and even "patents" are requisitioned.
In some of the larger churches there is the "slot" machine, which, when a coin is inserted,
gives out "The Pope's blessing." This is simply a picture representing his Holiness with uplifted
hands.

The following is a literal translation, from the Portuguese, of a "notice" in a Rio Janeiro
newspaper:

FESTIVAL IN HONOR OF THE LADY OF NAZARETH.

"The day will be ushered in with majestic and deafening fireworks, and the 'Hail Mary' rendered
by the beautiful band of the----Infantry regiment. There will be an intentional mass, grand
vocal and instrumental music, solemn vespers, the Gospel preached, and ribbons, which have
been placed round the neck of the image of St. Broz, distributed.

"The square, tastefully decorated and pompously illuminated, will afford the devotees, after
their supplications to the Lord of the Universe, the following means of amusement,-----the
Chinese Pavilion, etc.,-----. Evening service concluded, there will be danced in the Flora
Pavilion the fandango a pandereta. In the same pavilion a comic company will act several pieces.
On Sunday, upon the conclusion of the Te Deum, the comic company will perform," etc.

The spiritual darkness is appalling. If the following can be written of Pernambuco, a large
city of 180,000 inhabitants, on the sea coast, the reader can, in a measure, understand the
priestly thraldom of these isolated towns. A Pernambuco newspaper, in its issue of March 1st,
1903, contains an article headed, "Burning of Bibles," which says:

"As has been announced, there was realized in the square of the Church of Penha, on the 22nd
ult., at nine o'clock in the morning, in the presence of more than two thousand people, the
burning of two hundred and fourteen volumes of the Protestant Bible, amidst enthusiastic cheers
for the Catholic religion, the immaculate Virgin Mary, and the High Priest Leo XIII.--cheers
raised spontaneously by the Catholic people." [Footnote: Literal translation from the Portuguese.]

A colporteur, known to me, when engaged selling Bibles in a Brazilian town, reports that the
fanatical populace got his books and carried them, fastened and burning, at the end of blazing
torches, while they tramped the streets, yelling: "Away with all false books!" "Away with the
religion of the devils!" A recent Papal bull reads: "Bible burnings are most Catholic demonstrations."

Is it cause for wonder that the Spanish-American Republics have been so backward?

I have seen a notice headed "SAVIOUR OF SOULS," making known the fact that at a certain address
a Most Holy Reverend Father would be in attendance during certain hours, willing to save the
soul of any and every applicant on payment of so much. That revelation which tells of a Saviour
without money or price is denied them.

Corumba is a strange, lawless place, where the ragged, barefooted night policeman inspires
more terror in the law-abiding than the professional prowler. The former has a sharp sword,
which glitters as he threatens, and the latter has often a kind heart, and only asks "mil reis"
(about thirty cents).

How can a town be governed properly when its capital is three thousand miles distant, and the
only open route thither is, by river and sea, a month's journey? Perhaps the day is not far
distant when Cuyaba, the most central city of South America, and larger than Corumba, lying
hundreds of miles further up the river, will set up a head of its own to rule, or misrule,
the province. Brazil is too big, much too big, or the Government is too little, much too little.

The large states are subdivided into districts, or parishes, each under an ecclesiastical head,
as may be inferred from the peculiar names many of them bear. There are the parishes of:

"Our Lady, Mother of God of Porridge."

"The Three Hearts of Jesus."

"Our Lady of the Rosary of the Pepper Tree."

"The Souls of the Sand Bank of the River of Old Women."

"The Holy Ghost of the Cocoanut Tree."

"Our Lady Mother of the Men of Mud."

"The Sand Bank of the Holy Ghost."

"The Holy Spirit of the Pitchfork."

The Brazilian army, very materially aided by the saints, is able to keep this great country,
with its many districts, in tolerable quietness. Saint Anthony, who, when young, was privileged
to carry the toys of the child Jesus, is, in this respect, of great service to the Brazilians.
The military standing of Saint Anthony in the Brazilian army is one of considerable importance
and diversified service. According to a statement of Deputy Spinola, made on the 13th of June,
the eminent saint's feast day, his career in the military service of Brazil has been the following:
By a royal letter of the 7th of April, 1707, the commission of captain was conferred upon the
image of Saint Anthony, of Bahia. This image was promoted to be a major of infantry by a decree
of September 13th, 1819. In July, 1859, his pay was placed upon the regular pay-roll of the
Department of War.

The image of St. Anthony in Rio de Janeiro, however, outranks his counterpart of Bahia, and
seems to have had a more brilliant military record. Their nervous system is rapidly undermined;
their digestion becomes impaired. It is rare that one can point to instances of children arriving
early at positions of eminence in the dramatic art. It is true that there are a few who shine
as stars in the theatrical profession, and who entered upon their dramatic career in early childhood;
but these are rare exceptions."

It is not only on the stage that the morals of the children have been protected; the keepers
of low resorts have been prosecuted by the society.

It has shut up the den of the too celebrated Owney Geoghegan, who
long defied the law and the police, encouraging the efforts of prostitutes
to debauch young girls. I have been in the city of Bahia
when an average of 200 died every day from this terrible disease, so Brazil is beginning to
be more careful.

Though steamers were not running, perspiration was. Oh, the heat! In my excursions in and around
the town I found that even the mule I had hired, acclimatized as it was to heat and thirst
and hunger, began to show signs of fatigue. Can man or beast be expected to work when the temperature
stands at 130 degrees Fahrenheit in the shade?

As the natives find bullocks bear the heat better than mules, I procured one of these saddle
animals, but it could only travel at a snail's pace. I was indeed thankful to quit the oven
of a town when at last quarantine was raised and a Brazilian steamboat called.

Rats were so exceedingly numerous on this packet that they would scamper over our bodies at
night. So bold were they that we were compelled to take a cudgel into our berths! A Brazilian
passenger declared one morning that he had counted three hundred rats on the cabin floor at
one time! I have already referred to Brazilian numbering; perhaps he meant three hundred feet,
or seventy-five rats.

With the heat and the rats, supplemented by millions of mosquitos, my Corumba journey was not
exactly a picnic.

In due time we arrived again at Puerto Martinio, only to hear that our former fellow-passenger,
the assassin, had regained his freedom and could be seen walking about the town. But then--well,
he was rich, and money does all in Brazil--yea, the priest will even tell you it purchases
an entrance into heaven! In worldly matters the people see its power, and in spiritual matters
they believe it. How can he live if he deceives not? Strange indeed is the thought that, three
hundred years before the caravels of Portuguese conquerors ever sailed these waters, the law
of the Indian ruler of that very part of the country read: "Judges who receive bribes from
their clients are to be considered as thieves meriting death." And a clause in the Sacred Book
read: "He who kills another condemns his own self." Has the interior of South America gone
forward or backward since then? Was the adoration of the Sun more civilizing than the worship
of the Virgin?

When we got down into Argentine waters I began to feel cold, and donned an overcoat. Thinking
it strange that I should feel thus in the latitude which had in former times been so agreeable,
I investigated, and found the thermometer 85 degrees Fah. in the shade. After Corumba that
was cold.

PART V.

URUGUAY

THE LONE TRAIL.

The Republic of Uruguay has 72,210 square miles of territory, and is the smallest of the ten
countries of South America. Its population is only 1,103,000, but the Liebig Company, "which
manufactures beef tea for the world, owns nearly a million acres of land in Uruguay. On its
enormous ranches over 6,000,000 head of cattle have passed through its hands in the fifty years
of its existence." [Footnote: Clark. "Continent of Opportunity."]

The republic seems well governed, but, as in all Spanish-American countries, the ideas of right
and wrong are strange. While taking part in a religious procession, President Borda was assassinated
in 1897. A man was seen to deliberately walk up and shoot him. The Chief Executive fell mortally
wounded. This cool murderer was condemned to two years' imprisonment for insulting the President.

In 1900, President Arredondo was assassinated, but the murderer was acquitted on the ground
that "he was interpreting the feelings of the people."

Uruguay is a progressive republic, with more than a thousand miles of railway. On these lines
the coaches are very palatial. The larger part of the coach, made to seat fifty-two passengers,
is for smokers, the smaller compartment, accommodating sixteen, is for non-smokers, thus reversing
our own practice. Outside the harbor of the capital a great sea-wall is being erected, at tremendous
cost, to facilitate shipping, and Uruguay is certainly a country with a great future.

The capital city occupies a commanding position at the mouth of the great estuary of the Rio
de la Plata; its docks are large and modern, and palatial steamers of the very finest types
bring it in daily communication with Buenos Ayres. The Legislative Palace is one of the finest
government buildings in the world. The great Solis Theatre, where Patti and Bernhardt have
both appeared, covers nearly two acres of ground, seats three thousand people and cost three
million dollars to build. The sanitary conditions and water supply are so perfect that fewer
people die in this city, in proportion to its size, than in any other large city of the world.

The Parliament of Uruguay has recently voted that all privileges hitherto granted to particular
religious bodies shall be abrogated, that the army shall not take part in religious ceremonies,
that army chaplains shall be dismissed, that the national flag shall not be lowered before
any priest or religious symbol. So another state cuts loose from Rome!

The climate of the country is such that grapes, apricots, peaches, and many other fruits grow
to perfection. Its currency is on a more stable basis than that of any other Spanish republic,
and its dollar is actually worth 102 cents. The immigrants pouring into Uruguay have run up
to over 20,000 a year; the population has increased more than 100 per cent in 12 years; so
we shall hear from Uruguay in coming years more than we have done in the past.

CHAPTER XIII.

SKETCHES OF A HORSEBACK RIDE THROUGH THE REPUBLIC.

I CROSS THE SILVER RIVER.

I left Buenos Ayres for Uruguay in an Italian polacca. We weighed anchor one Sunday afternoon,
and as the breeze was favorable, the white sails, held up by strong ropes of rawhide, soon
wafted us away from the land. We sailed through a fleet of ships from all parts of the world,
anchored in the stream, discharging and loading cargoes. There, just arrived, was an Italian
emigrant ship with a thousand people on board, who had come to start life afresh. There was
the large British steamer, with her clattering windlass, hoisting on board live bullocks from
barges moored alongside. The animals are raised up by means of a strong rope tied around their
horns, and as the ship rocks on the swell they dangle in mid-air. When a favorable moment arrives
they are quickly dropped on to the deck, completely stupefied by their aerial flight.

As darkness fell, the wind dropped, and we lay rocking on the bosom of the river, with only
the twinkling lights of the Argentine coast to remind us of the solid world. The shoreless
river was, however, populous with craft of all rigs, for this is the highway to the great interior,
and some of them were bound to Cuyaba, 2,600 miles in the heart of the continent. During the
night a ship on fire in the offing lit up with great vividness the silent waste of waters,
and as the flames leaped up the rigging, the sight was very grand. Owing to calms and light
winds, our passage was a slow one, and I was not sorry when at last I could say good-bye to
the Italians and their oily food. Three nights and two days is a long time to spend in crossing
a river.

MONTEVIDEO.

Montevideo, the capital of Uruguay, is "one of the handsomest cities in all America, north
or south." Its population is over 350,000. It is one of the cleanest and best laid-out cities
on the continent; it has broad, airy streets and a general look of prosperity. What impresses
the newcomer most is the military display everywhere seen. Sentry boxes, in front of which
dark-skinned soldiers strut, seem to be at almost every corner. These furnish convincing proofs of
the sufferings of the children,--for example those of Maggie Scully, when she said: "I do all
the work at my aunt's house, and if you do not believe that I have been beaten, look at me,
for my aunt has beaten me this morning with a poker."

Adjoining the offices are the rooms for the officers and the archives of the institution, containing
the papers in each case setting forth the facts and the evidence. On the upper floor is a dormitory,
where the children are kept until final disposition is made of them, that is to say, generally
during one night.

In fact, the work is going on without interruption at all hours of the day and night. If at
night a call by telephone is received from the police-station, an officer of the society responds
immediately to this appeal. One of these priests met a late devotee, but now a follower of Christ through missionary
effort, and said: "Good morning, Daughter of the Evil One!" "Good morning, Father," she replied.

The cemetery is one of the finest on the continent, and is well worth a visit. Very few of
Montevideo's dead are buried. The coffins of the rich are zinc-lined, and provided with a glass
in the lid. All caskets are placed in niches in the high wall which surrounds the cemetery.
These mural niches are six or eight feet deep in the wall, and each one has a marble tablet
for the name of the deposited one. By means of a large portable ladder and elevator combined,
the coffins are raised from the ground. At anniversaries of the death the tomb is filled with
flowers, and candles are lit inside, while a wreath is hung on the door. A favorite custom
is to attend mass on Sunday morning, then visit the cemetery, and spend the afternoon at the
bull-fights.

NATIVE HOUSES AND HABITS.

Uruguay is essentially a pastoral country, and the finest animals of South America are there
raised. It is said that "Uruguay's pasture lands could feed all the cattle of the world, and
sheep grow fat at 50 to the acre." In 1889, when I first went there, there were thirty- two
millions of horned cattle grazing on a thousand hills. Liebig's famous establishments at Fray
Bentos, two hundred miles north of Montevideo, employs six hundred men, and kills one thousand
bullocks a day.

Uruguay has some good roads, and the land is wire-fenced in all directions. The rivers are
crossed on large flat-bottomed boats called balsas. These are warped across by a chain, and
carry as many as ten men and horses in one trip. The roads are in many places thickly strewn
with bones of dead animals, dropped by the way, and these are picked clean by the vultures.
No sooner does an animal lie down to die than, streaming out of the infinite space, which a
moment before has been a lifeless world of blue ether, there come lines of vultures, and soon
white bones are all that are left.

On the fence-posts one sees many nests of the casera (housebuilder) bird, made of mud. These
have a dome-shaped roof, and are divided by a partition inside into chamber and ante-chamber.
By the roadside are hovels of the natives not a twentieth part so well-built or rain- tight.
Fleas are so numerous in these huts that sometimes, after spending a night in one, it would
have been impossible to place a five-cent piece on any part of my body that had not been bitten
by them. Scorpions come out of the wood they burn on the earthen floor, and monster cockroaches
nibble your toes at night. The thick, hot grass roofs of the ranches harbor centipedes, which
drop on your face as you sleep, and bite alarmingly. These many-legged creatures grow to the
length of eight or nine inches, and run to and fro with great speed. Well might the little
girl, on seeing a centipede for the first time, ask: "What is that queer-looking thing, with
about a million legs?" Johnny wisely replied: "That's a millennium. It's something like a centennial,
only its has more legs."

After vain attempts to sleep, you rise, and may see the good wife cleaning her only plate for
you by rubbing it on her greasy hair and wiping it with the bottom of her chemise. Ugh! Proceeding
on the journey, it is a common sight to see three or four little birds sitting on the backs
of the horned cattle getting their breakfast, which I hope they relish better than I often did.

A WAKE, AND HOW TO GET TO HEAVEN.

During my journey I was asked: Would I like to go to the wake held that night at the next house,
three miles away? After supper, horses were saddled up and away we galloped. Quite a number
had already gathered there. We found the dead man lying on a couple of sheepskins, in the centre
of a mud-walled and mud-floored room. "No useless coffin enclosed his breast," nor was he wound
in either sheet or shroud. There he lay, fully attired, even to his shoes. Four tallow candles
lighted up the gloom, and these were placed at his head and feet. His clammy hands were reverently
folded over his breast, whilst entwined in his fingers was a bronze cross and rosary, that
St. Peter, seeing his devotion, might, without questioning, admit him to a better world. The
scene was weird beyond description. Outside, the wind moaned a sad dirge; great bats and black
moths, the size of birds, flitted about in the midnight darkness. These, ever and anon, made
their way inside and extinguished the candles, which flickered and dripped as they fitfully
shone on the shrunken features of the corpse. He had been a reprobate and an assassin, but,
luckily for him, a pious woman, not wishing to see him die "in his sins," had sprinkled Holy
Water on him. The said "Elixir of Life" had been brought eighty miles, and was kept in her
house to use only in extreme cases. When the curtain falls, the cold air comes down from the flies,
and the children, who have become over heated by their physical exertions, shiver to the marrow before
they are able to accustom themselves to this sudden change of temperature.
 The men, standing around the door, talked of their horse-races, fights or anything
else. For some hours I heard no allusion to the dead, but as the night wore on the prophetess
of the people came forth.

