Frontispiece:
  LIFTING OFF HIS BROAD-BRIMMED HAT TO HER IN A GRACIOUS SWEEP]

                          THE
                     LIONS OF THE
                         LORD

                A Tale of the Old West

                 By HARRY LEON WILSON

               Author of "The Spenders"

           Illustrated by ROSE CECIL O'NEILL

                 Published June, 1903

                      TO MY WIFE

FOREWORD

In the days of '49 seven trails led from our Western frontier into the Wonderland that lay
far out under the setting sun and called to the restless. Each of the seven had been blazed
mile by mile through the mighty romance of an empire's founding. Some of them for long stretches
are now overgrown by the herbage of the plain; some have faded back into the desert they lined;
and more than one has been shod with steel. But along them all flit and brood the memory-ghosts
of old, rich-coloured days. To the shout of teamster, the yell of savage, the creaking of tented
ox-cart, and the rattle of the swifter mail-coach, there go dim shapes of those who had thrilled
to that call of the West;--strong, brave men with the far look in their eyes, with those magic
rude tools of the pioneer, the rifle and the axe; women, too, equally heroic, of a stock, fearless,
ready, and staunch, bearing their sons and daughters in fortitude; raising them to fear God,
to love their country,--and to labour. From the edge of our Republic these valiant ones toiled
into the dump of prairie and mountain to live the raw new days and weld them to our history;
to win fertile acres from the wilderness and charm the desert to blossoming. And the time of
these days and these people, with their tragedies and their comedies, was a time of epic splendour;--more
vital with the stuff and colour of life, I think, than any since the stubborn gray earth out
there was made to yield its treasure.

Of these seven historic highways the one richest in story is the old Salt Lake Trail: this
because at its western end was woven a romance within a romance;--a drama of human passions,
of love and hate, of high faith and low, of the beautiful and the ugly, of truth and lies;
yet with certain fine fidelities under it all; a drama so close-knit, so amazingly true, that
one who had lightly designed to make a tale there was dismayed by fact. So much more thrilling
was it than any fiction he might have imagined, so more than human had been the cunning of
the Master Dramatist, that the little make-believe he was pondering seemed clumsy and poor,
and he turned from it to try to tell what had really been.

In this story, then, the things that are strangest have most of truth. The make-believe is
hardly more than a cement to join the queerly wrought stones of fact that were found ready.
For, if the writer has now and again had to divine certain things that did not show,--yet must
have been,--surely these are not less than truth. One of these deductions is the Lute of the
Holy Ghost who came in the end to be the Little Man of Sorrows: who loved a woman, a child,
and his God, but sinned through pride of soul;--whose life, indeed, was a poem of sin and retribution.
Yet not less true was he than the Lion of the Lord, the Archer of Paradise, the Wild Ram of
the Mountains, or the gaunt, gray woman whom hurt love had crazed. For even now, as the tale
is done, comes a dry little note in the daily press telling how such a one actually did the
other day a certain brave, great thing it had seemed the imagined one must be driven to do.
Only he and I, perhaps, will be conscious of the struggle back of that which was printed; but
at least we two shall know that the Little Man of Sorrows is true, even though the cross where
he fled to say his last prayer in the body has long since fallen and its bars crumbled to desert
dust.

Yet there are others still living in a certain valley of the mountains who will know why the
soul-proud youth came to bend under invisible burdens, and why he feared, as an angel of vengeance,
that early cowboy with the yellow hair, who came singing down from the high divide into Amalon
where a girl was waiting in her dream of a single love; others who, to this day, will do not
more than whisper with averted faces of the crime that brought a curse upon the land; who still
live in terror of shapes that shuffle furtively behind them, fumbling sometimes at their shoulders
with weak hands, striving ever to come in front and turn upon them. But these will know only
one side of the Little Man of Sorrows who was first the Lute of the Holy Ghost in the Poet's
roster of titles: since they have lacked his courage to try the great issue with their God.

New York City, May 1st, 1903.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.       THE DEAD CITY

II.      THE WILD RAM OF THE MOUNTAINS

III.     THE LUTE OF THE HOLY GHOST BREAKS HIS FAST

IV.      A FAIR APOSTATE

V.       GILES RAE BEAUTIFIES HIS INHERITANCE

VI.      THE LUTE OF THE HOLY GHOST IS FURTHER CHASTENED

VII.     SOME INNER MYSTERIES ARE EXPOUNDED

VIII.    A REVELATION FROM THE LORD AND A TOAST FROM BRIGHAM

IX.      INTO THE WILDERNESS

X.       THE PROMISED LAND

XI.      ANOTHER MIRACLE AND A TEMPTATION IN THE WILDERNESS

XII.     A FIGHT FOR LIFE

XIII.    JOEL RAE IS TREATED FOR PRIDE OF SOUL

XIV.     HOW THE SAINTS WERE BROUGHT TO REPENTANCE

XV.      HOW THE SOULS OF APOSTATES WERE SAVED

XVI.     THE ORDER FROM HEADQUARTERS

XVII.    THE MEADOW SHAMBLES

XVIII.   IN THE DARK OF THE AFTERMATH

XIX.     THE HOST OF ISRAEL GOES FORTH TO BATTLE

XX.      HOW THE LION OF THE LORD ROARED SOFT

XXI.     THE BLOOD ON THE PAGE

XXII.    THE PICTURE IN THE SKY

XXIII.   THE SINNER CHASTENS HIMSELF

XXIV.    THE COMING OF THE WOMAN-CHILD

XXV.     THE ENTABLATURE OF TRUTH MAKES A DISCOVERY AT AMALON

XXVI.    HOW THE RED CAME BACK TO THE BLOOD TO BE A SNARE

XXVII.   A NEW CROSS TAKEN UP AND AN OLD ENEMY FORGIVEN

XXVIII.  JUST BEFORE THE END OF THE WORLD

XXIX.    THE WILD RAM OF THE MOUNTAINS OFFERS TO BECOME A SAVIOUR ON
           MOUNT ZION

XXX.     HOW THE WORLD DID NOT COME TO AN END

XXXI.    THE LION OF THE LORD SENDS AN ORDER

XXXII.   A NEW FACE IN THE DREAM

XXXIII.  THE GENTILE INVASION

XXXIV.   HOW THE AVENGER BUNGLED HIS VENGEANCE

XXXV.    RUEL FOLLETT'S WAY OF BUSINESS

XXXVI.   THE MISSION TO A DESERVING GENTILE

XXXVII.  THE GENTILE ISSUES AN ULTIMATUM

XXXVIII. THE MISSION SERVICE IN BOX CAÑON IS SUSPENDED

XXXIX.   A REVELATION CONCERNING THE TRUE ORDER OF MARRIAGE

XL.      A PROCESSION, A PURSUIT, AND A CAPTURE

XLI.     THE RISE AND FALL OF A BENT LITTLE PROPHET

XLII.    THE LITTLE BENT MAN AT THE FOOT OF THE CROSS

XLIII.   THE GENTILE CARRIES OFF HIS SPOIL

ILLUSTRATIONS

Lifting off his broad-brimmed hat to her in a gracious sweep

"Her goal is Zion, not Babylon, sir--remember that!"

"I'm the one will have to be caught"

"But you're not my really papa!"

Full of zest for the measure as any youth

"Oh, Man ... how I've longed for that bullet of yours!"

THE LIONS OF THE LORD

CHAPTER I.

The Dead City

The city without life lay handsomely along a river in the early sunlight of a September morning.
Death had seemingly not been long upon it, nor had it made any scar. No breach or rent or disorder
or sign of violence could be seen. The long, shaded streets breathed the still airs of utter
peace and quiet. From the half-circle around which the broad river bent its moody current,
the neat houses, set in cool, green gardens, were terraced up the high hill, and from the summit
of this a stately marble temple, glittering of newness, towered far above them in placid benediction.

Mile after mile the streets lay silent, along the river-front, up to the hilltop, and beyond
into the level; no sound nor motion nor sign of life throughout their length. And when they
had run their length, and the outlying fields were reached, there, too, was the same brooding
spell as the land stretched away in the hush and haze. The yellow grain, heavy-headed with
richness, lay beaten down and rotting, for there were no reapers. The city, it seemed, had
died calmly, painlessly, drowsily, as if overcome by sleep.

From a skiff in mid-river, a young man rowing toward the dead city rested on his oars and looked
over his shoulder to the temple on the hilltop. There was something very boyish in the reverent
eagerness with which his dark eyes rested upon the pile, tracing the splendid lines from its
broad, gray base to its lofty spire, radiant with white and gold. As he looked long and intently,
the colour of new life flushed into a face that was pinched and drawn. With fresh resolution,
he bent again to his oars, noting with a quick eye that the current had carried him far down-stream
while he stopped to look upon the holy edifice.

Landing presently at the wharf, he was stunned by the hush of the streets. This was not like
the city of twenty thousand people he had left three months before. In blank bewilderment he
stood, turning to each quarter for some solution of the mystery. Perceiving at length that
there was really no life either way along the river, he started wonderingly up a street that
led from the waterside,--a street which, when he had last walked it, was quickening with the
rush of a mighty commerce.

Soon his expression of wonder was darkened by a shade of anxiety. There was an unnerving quality
in the trance-like stillness; and the mystery of it pricked him to forebodings. He was now
passing empty workshops, hesitating at door after door with ever-mounting alarm. Then he began
to call, but the sound of his voice served only to aggravate the silence.

Growing bolder, he tried some of the doors and found them to yield, letting him into a kind
of smothered, troubled quietness even more oppressive than that outside. He passed an empty
ropewalk, the hemp strewn untidily about, as if the workers had left hurriedly. He peered curiously
at idle looms and deserted spinning-wheels--deserted apparently but the instant before he came.
It seemed as if the people were fled maliciously just in front, to leave him in this fearfullest
of all solitudes. He wondered if he did not hear their quick, furtive steps, and see the vanishing
shadows of them.

He entered a carpenter's shop. On the bench was an unfinished door, a plane left where it had
been shoved half the length of its edge, the fresh pine shaving still curling over the side.
He left with an uncanny feeling that the carpenter, breathing softly, had watched him from
some hiding-place, and would now come stealthily out to push his plane again.

He turned into a baker's shop and saw freshly chopped kindling piled against the oven, and
dough actually on the kneading-tray. In a tanner's vat he found fresh bark. In a blacksmith's
shop he entered next the fire was out, but there was coal heaped beside the forge, with the
ladling-pool and the crooked water-horn, and on the anvil was a horseshoe that had cooled before
it was finished.

With something akin to terror, he now turned from this street of shops into one of those with
the pleasant dwellings, eager to find something alive, even a dog to bark an alarm. He entered
one of the gardens, clicking the gate-latch loudly after him, but no one challenged. He drew
a drink from the well with its loud-rattling chain and clumsy, water-sodden bucket, but no
one called. At the door of the house he whistled, stamped, pounded, and at last flung it open
with all the noise he could make. Still his hungry ears fed on nothing but sinister echoes,
the barren husks of his own clamour. There was no curt voice of a man, no quick, questioning
tread of a woman. There were dead white ashes on the hearth, and the silence was grimly kept
by the dumb household gods.

His nervousness increased. So vividly did his memory people the streets and shops and houses
that the air was vibrant with sound,--low-toned conversations, shouts, calls, laughter, the
voices of children, the creaking of wagons, pounding hammers, the clangour of many works; yet
all muffled away from him, as if coming from some phantom-land. His eyes, too, were kept darting
from side to side by vague forms that flitted privily near by, around corners, behind him,
lurking always a little beyond his eyes, turn them quickly as he would. Now, facing the street,
he shouted, again and again, from sheer nervousness; but the echoes came back alone.

He recalled a favourite day-dream of boyhood,--a dream in which he became the sole person in
the world, wandering with royal liberty through strange cities, with no voice to chide or forbid,
free to choose and partake, as would a prince, of all the wonders and delights that boyhood
can picture; his own master and the master of all the marvels and treasures of earth. This
was like the dream come true; but it distressed him. It was necessary to find the people at
once. He had a feeling that his instant duty was to break some malign spell that lay upon the
place--or upon himself. For one of them was surely bewitched.

Out he strode to the middle of the street, between two rows of yellowing maples, and there
he shouted again and still more loudly to evoke some shape or sound of life, sending a full,
high, ringing call up the empty thoroughfare. Between the shouts he scanned the near-by houses
intently.

At last, half-way up the next block, even as his lungs filled for another peal, he thought
his eyes caught for a short half-second the mere thin shadow of a skulking figure. It had seemed
to pass through a grape arbour that all but shielded from the street a house slightly more
pretentious than its neighbours. He ran toward the spot, calling as he went. But when he had
vaulted over the low fence, run across the garden and around the end of the arbour, dense with
the green leaves and clusters of purple grapes, the space in front of the house was bare. If
more than a trick-phantom of his eye had been there, it had vanished.

He stood gazing blankly at the front door of the house. Was it fancy that he had heard it shut
a second before he came? that his nerves still responded to the shock of its closing? He had
already imagined so many noises of the kind, so many misty shapes fleeing before him with little
soft rustlings, so many whispers at his back and hushed cries behind the closed doors. Yet
this door had seemed to shut more tangibly, with a warmer promise of life. He went quickly
up the three wooden steps, turned the knob, and pushed it open--very softly this time. No one
appeared. But, as he stood on the threshold, while the pupils of his eyes dilated to the gloom
of the hall into which he looked, his ears seemed to detect somewhere in the house a muffled
footfall and the sound of another door closed softly.

He stepped inside and called. There was no answer, but above his head a board creaked. He started
up the stairs in front of him, and, as he did so, he seemed to hear cautious steps across a
bare floor above. He stopped climbing; the steps ceased. He started up, and the steps came
again. He knew now they came from a room at the head of the stairs. He bounded up the remaining
steps and pushed open the door with a loud "Halloo!"

The room was empty. Yet across it there was the indefinable trail of a presence,--an odour,
a vibration, he knew not what,--and where a bar of sunlight cut the gloom under a half-raised
curtain, he saw the motes in the air all astir. Opposite the door he had opened was another,
leading, apparently, to a room at the back of the house. From behind it, he could have sworn
came the sounds of a stealthily moved body and softened breathing. A presence, unseen but felt,
was all about. Not without effort did he conquer the impulse to look behind him at every breath.

Determined to be no longer eluded, he crossed the room on tiptoe and gently tried the opposite
door. It was locked. As he leaned against it, almost in a terror of suspense, he knew he heard
again those little seemings of a presence a door's thickness away. He did not hesitate. Still
holding the turned knob in his hand, he quickly crouched back and brought his flexed shoulder
heavily against the door. It flew open with a breaking sound, and, with a little gasp of triumph,
he was in the room to confront its unknown occupant.

To his dismay, he saw no one. All these changes and transactions excited talk in Dalton. Every kind
of rumor went abroad that you can imagine; and it was currently believed at last that the doctor
had made a fortune by some army contract. So well persuaded of this fact was his wife, that, as time
wore on, she began to think, and to say, that, if such was the case,
she didn't know why she should be kept on short allowance, and to
inquire among the neighbors the easiest and the shortest route from
Dalton to Frere's Landing.

Nobody seemed able to answer the question so well as Ezra Cramer; and he assured her that she would
lose her head before she got half through the army lines which stretched between her and the hospital.
But then Ezra was a born know-nothing, said Nancy,--that everybody
knew

.

The Wild Ram of the Mountains

Slight though his figure was, it was lithe and active and well-muscled, and he knew as they
struggled that his assailant was possessed of no greater advantage than had lain in his point
of attack. In strength, apparently, they were well-matched. Twice they rolled over on the carpeted
floor, and then, despite the big, bony hands pressing about his throat, he turned his burden
under him, and all but loosened the killing clutch. This brought them close to the window,
but again he was swiftly drawn underneath. Then, as he felt his head must burst and his senses
were failing from the deadly grip at his throat, his feet caught in the folds of the heavy
curtain, and brought it down upon them in a cloud of dust.

As the light flooded in, he saw the truth, even before his now panting and sneezing antagonist
did. Releasing the pressure from his throat with a sudden access of strength born of the new
knowledge, he managed to gasp, though thickly and with pain, as they still strove:

"Seth Wright--wait--let go--wait, Seth--I'm Joel--Joel Rae!"

He managed it with difficulty.

"Joel Rae--Rae--Rae--don't you see?"

He felt the other's tension relax. With many a panting, puffing "Hey!" and "What's that now?"
he was loosed, and drew himself up into a chair by the saving window. His assailant, a hale,
genial-faced man of forty, sat on the floor where the revelation of his victim's identity had
overtaken him. He was breathing hard and feeling tenderly of his neck. This was ruffled ornamentally
by a style of whisker much in vogue at the time. It had proved, however, but an inferior defense
against the onslaught of the younger man in his frantic efforts to save his own neck.

They looked at each other in panting amazement, until the older man recovered his breath, and
spoke:

"Gosh and all beeswax! The Wild Ram of the Mountains a-settin' on the Lute of the Holy Ghost's
stomach a-chokin' him to death. My sakes! I'm a-pantin' like a tuckered hound--a-thinkin' he
was a cussed milishy mobocrat come to spoil his household!"

The younger man was now able to speak, albeit his breathing was still heavy and the marks of
the struggle plain upon him.

"What does it mean, Brother Wright--all this? Where are the Saints we left here--why is the
city deserted--and why this--this?"

He shook back the thick, brown hair that fell to his shoulders, tenderly rubbed the livid fingerprints
at his throat, and readjusted the collar of his blue flannel shirt.

"Thought you was a milishy man, I tell you, from the careless way you hollered--one of Brockman's
devils come back a-snoopin', and I didn't crave trouble, but when I saw the Lord appeared to
reely want me to cope with the powers of darkness, why, I jest gritted into you for the consolation
of Israel. You'd 'a' got your come-uppance, too, if you'd 'a' been a mobber. You was nigh a-ceasin'
to breathe, Joel Rae. In another minute I wouldn't 'a' give the ashes of a rye-straw for your
part in the tree of life!"

"Yes, yes, man, but go back a little. Where are our people, the sick, the old, and the poor,
that we had to leave till now? Tell me, quick."

The older man sprang up, the late struggle driven from his mind, his face scowling. He turned
upon his questioner.

"Does my fury swell up in me? No wonder! And you hain't guessed why? Well, them pitiful remnant
of Saints, the sick, the old, the poor, waitin' to be helped yender to winter quarters, has
been throwed out into that there slough acrost the river, six hundred and forty of 'em."

"When we were keeping faith by going?"

"What does a mobocrat care for faith-keepin'? Have you brought back the wagons?"

"Yes; they'll reach the other side to-night. I came ahead and made the lower crossing. I've
seen nothing and heard nothing. Go on--tell me--talk, man!"

"Talk?--yes, I'll talk! We've had mobs and the very scum of hell to boil over here. This is
Saturday, the 19th, ain't it? Well, Brockman marched against this stronghold of Israel jest
a week ago, with eight hundred men. They had cannons and demanded surrender. We was a scant
two hundred fightin' men, and the only artillery we had was what we made ourselves. We broke
up an old steamboat shaft and bored out the pieces so's they'd take a six-pound shot--but we
wasn't goin' to give up. We'd learned our lesson about mobocrat milishies. Well, Brockman,
when he got our defy, sent out his Warsaw riflemen as flankers on the right and left, put the
Lima Guards to our front with one cannon, and marched his main body through that corn-field
and orchard to the south of here to the city lines. Then we had it hot. Brockman shot away
all his cannon-balls--he had sixty-one--and drew back while he sent to Quincy for more. He'd
killed three of our men. Sunday and Monday we swopped a few shots. And then Tuesday, along
comes a committee of a hundred to negotiate peace. Well, Wednesday evening they signed terms,
spite of all I could do. I'd 'a' fought till the white crows come a-cawin', but the rest of
'em wasn't so het up with the Holy Ghost, I reckon. Anyway, they signed. The terms wasn't reely
set till Thursday morning, but we knew they would be, and so all Wednesday night we was movin'
acrost the river, and it kept up all next day,--day before yesterday. You'd ought to 'a' been
here then; you wouldn't wonder at my comin' down on you like a thousand of brick jest now,
takin' you for a mobocrat. My sakes! but I did want to run some bullets and fill my old horn
with powder for the consolation of Israel! They're lyin' out over there in the slough now,
as many as ain't gone to glory. It made me jest plumb murderous!"

The younger man uttered a sharp cry of anguish. "What, oh, what has been our sin, that we must
be proved again? Why have we got to be chastened?"

"Then Brockman's force marched in Thursday afternoon, and hell was let loose. His devils have
plundered the town, thrown out the bedridden that jest couldn't move, thrown their goods out
after 'em, burned, murdered, tore up. You come up from the river, and you ain't seen that yet--they
ain't touched the lower part of town--and now they're bunkin' in the temple, defacin' it, defilin'
it,--that place we built to be a house of rest for the Lord when he cometh again. They drove
me acrost the river yesterday, and promised to shoot me if I dast show myself again. I sneaked
over in a skiff last night and got here to get my two pistols and some money and trinkets we'd
hid out. I was goin' to cross again to-night and wait for you and the wagons."

"My God! and this is the nineteenth century in a land of liberty!"

"State of Illinois, U.S.A., September 19, 1846--but what of that? We're the Lord's chosen,
and over yender is a generation of vipers warned to flee from the wrath to come. But they won't
flee, and so we're outcasts for the present, driven forth like snakes. The best American blood
is in our veins. We're Plymouth Rock stock, the best New England graft; the fathers of nine
tenths of us was at Bunker Hill or Valley Forge or Yorktown, but what of that, I ask you?"

The speaker became oratorical as his rage grew.

"What did Matty Van Buren say to Sidney Rigdon and Elias Higbee when they laid our cause before
him at Washington after our Missouri persecutions--when the wicked hatred of them Missourians
had as a besom of fire swept before it into exile the whipped and plundered Saints of Jackson
County? Well, he said: 'Gentlemen, your cause is just, but I can do nothing for you.' That's
what a President of the United States said to descendants of Mayflower crossers who'd been
foully dealt with, and been druv from their substance and their homes, their wheat burned in
the stack and in the shock, and themselves butchered or put into the wilderness. And now the
Lord's word to this people is to gether out again."

The younger man had listened in deep dejection.

"Yes, it's to be the old story. I saw it coming. The Lord is proving us again. But surely this
will be the last. He will not again put us through fire and blood."

He paused, and for a moment his quick brown eyes looked far away.

"And yet, do you know, Bishop, I've thought that he might mean us to save ourselves against
this Gentile persecution. Sometimes I find it hard to control myself."

The Bishop grinned appreciatively.

"So I heer'd. The Lute of the Holy Ghost got too rambunctious back in the States on the subject
of our wrongs. And so they called you back from your mission?"

"They said I must learn to school myself; that I might hurt the cause by my ill-tempered zeal--and
yet I brought in many--" 

"You have better company, that's all. I'm not such a fool that I can't see it. You have better
times, lad,--if I don't."
"Then all you did for me before she came was for pity's sake! Who's
in the ditch now, getting all the favor you used to show to me?" I started for him. I never reached
him, but I reached the end of my mission right there. The Twelve decided I was usefuller here
at home. They said I hadn't got enough of the Lord's humility for outside work. That was why
they put me at the head of--that little organisation I wanted you to join last spring. And
it's done good work, too. You'll join now fast enough, I guess. You begin to see the need of
such doin's. I can give you the oath any time."

"No, Bishop, I didn't mean that kind of resistance. It sounded too practical for me; I'm still
satisfied to be the Lute of the Holy Ghost."

"You can be a Son of Dan, too."

"Not yet, not yet. We must still be a little meek in the face of Heaven."

"You're in a mighty poor place to practise meekness. What'd you cross the river for, anyway?"

"Why, for father and mother, of course. They must be safe at Green Plains. Can I get out there
without trouble?"

The Bishop sneered.

"Be meek, will you? Well, mosey out to Green Plains and begin there. It's a burned plains you'll
find, and Lima and Morley all the same, and Bear Creek. The mobbers started out from Warsaw,
and burned all in their way, Morley first, then Green Plains, Bear Creek, and Lima. They'd
set fire to the houses and drive the folks in ahead. They killed Ed Durfee at Morley for talkin'
back to 'em."

"But father and mother, surely--"

"Your pa and ma was druv in here with the rest, like cattle to the slaughter."

"You don't mean to say they're over there on the river bank?"

"Now, they are a kind of a mystery about that--why they wa'n't throwed out with the rest. Your
ma's sick abed--she ain't ever been peart since the night your pa's house was fired and they
had to walk in--but that ain't the reason they wa'n't throwed out. They put out others sicker.
They flung families where every one was sick out into that slough. I guess what's left of 'em
wouldn't be a supper-spell for a bunch of long-billed mosquitoes. But one of them milishy captains
was certainly partial to your folks for some reason. They was let to stay in Phin Daggin's
house till you come."

"And Prudence--the Corsons--Miss Prudence Corson?"

"Oh, ho! So she's the one, is she? Now that reminds me, mebbe I can guess the cute of that
captain's partiality. That girl's been kind of lookin' after your pa and ma, and that same
milishy captain's been kind of lookin' after the girl. She got him to let her folks go to Springfield."

"But that's the wrong way."

"Well, now, I don't want to spleen, but I never did believe Vince Corson was anything more'n
a hickory Saint--and there's been a lot of talk--but you get yours from the girl. If I ain't
been misled, she's got some ready for you."

"Bishop, will there be a way for us to get into the temple, for her to be sealed to me? I've
looked forward to that, you know. It would be hard to miss it."

"The mob's got the temple, even if you got the girl. There's a verse writ in charcoal on the
portal:--

  "'Large house, tall steeple,
    Silly priests, deluded people.'

"That's how it is for the temple, and the mob's bunked there. But the girl may have changed
her mind, too."

The young man's expression became wistful and gentle, yet serenely sure.

"I guess you never knew Prudence at all well," he said. "But come, can't we go to them? Isn't
Phin Daggin's house near?"

"You may git there all right. But I don't want my part taken out of the tree of life jest yet.
I ain't aimin' to show myself none. Hark!"

From outside came the measured, swinging tramp of men.

"Come see how the Lord is proving us--and step light."

They tiptoed through the other rooms to the front of the house.

"There's a peek-hole I made this morning--take it. I'll make me one here. Don't move the curtain."

They put their eyes to the holes and were still. The quick, rhythmic, scuffling tread of feet
drew nearer, and a company of armed men marched by with bayonets fixed. The captain, a handsome,
soldierly young fellow, glanced keenly from right to left at the houses along the line of march.

"We're all right," said the Bishop, in low tones. "The cusses have been here once--unless they
happened to see us. They're startin' in now down on the flat to make sure no poor sick critter
is left in bed in any of them houses. Now's your chance if you want to git up to Daggin's.
Go out the back way, follow up the alleys, and go in at the back when you git there. Now we
got to pass through the pinches again. We can't stand it for ever."

"The spirit may move us against it, Brother Seth."

"I wish to hell it would!" replied the Bishop.

CHAPTER III.

The Lute of the Holy Ghost Breaks His Fast

