In reply to Mr. William Hard, who called attention to the fact that Jews like Vinaver, Martov,
and others have been as active on the anti-Bolshevist side as Trotzky, Kamenev, Zinoviev, and
others have been on the Bolshevist side, the anonymous writer employed by the Dearborn Independent
resorts to a more cowardly and despicable controversial trick than I have hitherto encountered,
even in anti-Semitic literature. There could not be a kinder or more generous promise, but I could
not help fearing that my father should refrain from speaking of her too much, and that it would
hurt his mind. He used to say it was a great relief to him to talk of my mother Honora.

* * * * *

In the summer of 1791 Mr. and Mrs. Edgeworth went to England, leaving Maria in sole charge of
the large family at home. She used to amuse her young sisters at this time by stories, which
she would write on a slate during the leisure moments her many occupations permitted, and which
she would read aloud to them in the evening. By their interest or
questions she estimated the stories, which became the foundation of
The Parent's Assistant. Surely it is not difficult to see this matter from the viewpoint of the Jew,
which in this instance is also the viewpoint of every fair-minded non-Jew. For the Jew it is
a case of being damned either way. When it is noted that there are a few Jews holding prominent
positions in the Bolshevist regime, the whole race is stigmatized and charged with being engaged
in a conspiracy to destroy civilization; but when attention is called to the fact that other
Jews, far more numerous, are engaged in fighting Bolshevism and attempting to save civilization,
no credit for that fact is given to the race; it is not admitted as a fact modifying the previously
formed sweeping judgment, but, on the contrary, is held to be additional evidence of guilt.
Nothing that Bolshevist propagandists have attempted to do in this country involves anything
like the peril to our institutions that is involved in this deliberate attempt to silence the
anti-Bolshevist Jews by making even their propaganda against Bolshevism appear as part of a
conspiracy against those institutions.

I am not here and now concerned to defend the Jews. Even were my gifts much greater, I should
not presume to arrogate to myself that honor. The defense of the Jewish people against the
aspersions cast upon them by this cruel propaganda belongs in the first place to Jewish scholars
and publicists and can be left to them. My concern is the defense of Christian civilization,
of American ideals and institutions, of the noblest Anglo-Saxon traditions. These things are
our greatest wealth; they are the heritage of our children. When, therefore, this hateful propaganda
imperils these things, it is both my duty and my privilege to defend them. Anti-Semitism has
no place in Christian civilization; its spirit and its language are both alien and hostile
to our Republic and to the genius of the race of Milton and Lincoln.

It can be demonstrated to the full satisfaction of any open-minded person of normal intelligence
that Bolshevism is the negation of the faith and morals which constitute the strongest bond
of the Jewish people. Trotzky has many times declared that he is no Jew, but a "general proletarian,"
and Bela Kun, in a formal statement, declared himself to be opposed to all religions and national
cultures, the Jewish included, and that he stood only for the economic interests of the proletariat.
I could quote many similar statements by prominent Jewish Bolsheviki, were it necessary. The
position taken by these men is, of course, entirely logical. Not only is Bolshevism fundamentally
opposed to the Jewish religion; it is equally antagonistic to the principle of nationality
itself. How, then, can it be possible to regard Bolshevism as typically and essentially Jewish,
or as part of an all-Jewish conspiracy? Is it possible to believe that a great conspiratory
scheme to direct the whole weight and influence of the Jewish people to a single political
end, conceived and led by the ablest leaders of that great people so remarkable for their intellectual
power, would or could rest upon principles diametrically and irreconcilably opposed to the
greatest psychological force motivating the conduct of the masses of that people?

These questions by themselves shatter the charge we are discussing. There is, however, an immense
mass of direct and positive evidence available to all who desire to know the truth, but which
is carefully and studiously ignored by the preachers of anti-Semitism. If such men as Mr. Ford
are ignorant of the existence of this evidence, as we must suppose them to be, their offense
against America and American ideals is not thereby appreciably lessened; their reckless and
irresponsible use of the wealth and other influential agents at their command adds to the sum
of their shame and wrongdoing. The greatest and strongest Jewish Socialist organization in
Russia and Poland, the "Bund," has stood in solid opposition to Bolshevism and the Bolshevist
regime from the very beginning until now. Not only have leaders of the right wing, or moderate
section of the "Bund," such as Lieber, fought Bolshevism with their full might, but leaders
of the radical left wing, such as Kossovsky and Medem, have been equally courageous and uncompromising
on the same side[1]. A tiny and negligible minority split off from the "Bund" because of its
anti-Bolshevist character and formed a new organization, the "Communist Bund." Similarly, the
overwhelming mass of the Zionist party has consistently opposed Bolshevism and all its works,
and such men as Doctor Pasmanick, the well-known Zionist leader of Odessa, have given their
full support to every anti-Bolshevist movement, political and military.

I have already referred to the activity of the well-known Jewish leader, Vinaver, in the fight
against Bolshevism. Mr. Vinaver is not a Socialist; on the contrary, during many years he has
been a consistent opponent of Socialism and one of the foremost leaders of the Constitutional
Democratic party, of whose Central Committee he was, and I believe still is, the chairman.
Immediately after the March revolution of 1917, Mr. Vinaver was appointed Senator by the First
Provisional Government. He was elected to the Constituent Assembly from Petrograd, and later
on, after his escape from Petrograd, served as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the government
of the Crimea. This prominent Jewish anti-Socialist testifies that "not a single Jewish Socialist
faction has joined the Bolsheviki." From a report on this subject cabled to this country by
Vinaver in July, 1919, I quote the following paragraphs, which speak for themselves.

    The entire Russian Jewry struggles against Bolshevism. This is
    true not only with regard to the bourgeoisie, but to the
    democratic classes of the Russian Jewry as well. It is
    sufficient to say that not a single Jewish Socialist faction has
    joined the Bolsheviki. All political factions of the Russian
    Jewry are struggling against Bolshevism.

    The great majority of the Jewish population, including many of
    the poor, are being classed by the Bolsheviki with the so-called
    bourgeoisie, and every place where the Bolsheviki rule, the
    Jewish population, not to speak of very insignificant
    exceptions, is suffering and starving.

    The Bolshevist regime has destroyed the industries and the
    trade, and the Jewish population, which made its living mostly
    through participation in the industrial and commercial life, is
    suffering probably more than other nationalities. At the same
    time, the Bolsheviki are persecuting all religions, and the
    Jewish religious institutions have suffered from their despotic
    rule not less than the institutions of the Christian religion.

    The anti-Semites are making very wide use of the fact that
    Trotzky is a Jew, but the participation of several Jews among
    the Bolshevist leaders does not nullify the fact that the
    Russian Jewry, in its overwhelming majority, struggles actively
    against Bolshevism. It is significant that Bolshevism spread
    mostly in central and eastern Russia where the Jews constitute
    an insignificant minority.

It is a significant fact that the only Socialist elected to the United States Congress in the
recent election, Meyer London, a Russian-born Jew, is a vigorous opponent of Bolshevism. In
view of such evidence as the foregoing, it is surely not less than ridiculous to attempt to
make Bolshevism appear as a phase of Jewish Socialism, and a part of a world-wide Jewish conspiracy,
instead of what it is--namely, the wild anarchical outburst of despairing and desperate masses
of men. I venture to say that when the history of this tragic episode in the life of Russia
is authoritatively written, it will be found that Jews have not been responsible for the most
objectionable features of Bolshevism. Not even Trotzky need be excluded from this generalization,
for, while it is true that his genius made Bolshevism the formidable military power it became,
the brutal excesses of the Red Terror must be charged against such men as Peters, the Lett,
and Dzerzhinsky, the Pole.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] see the articles published in the New York pro-Bolshevist weekly, Die Neue Welt, June 27,
July 4 and 11, 1919.

VI

BOLSHEVISM AND THE JEWS

No one who knows how the Jews of Russia, in common with the rest of the population, have suffered
from Bolshevist misrule will be likely to give credence to the theory that Bolshevism is part
of a Jewish conspiracy. As everybody knows, Jews made up a very considerable part of the commercial
class in Russia. The indemnities levied upon this class by the Bolshevist commissions in the
cities have applied equally to Jew and Gentile. It is a fact that ordinary Jewish shopkeepers
have been compelled to pay their full share of the indemnities so levied. Scores of thousands
of Jews have had their property confiscated and been reduced to abject poverty. Many thousands
more have had to flee, leaving everything behind them, thankful only that they could save their
lives. The Chresvy-chaikas have drawn no distinction between Jew and Gentile, and the available
records, meager as they are, prove that the Jews have contributed their full quota to the long
list of the victims of these infamous terrorist organizations. Pogroms and other manifestations
of anti-Semitism have been too common in Bolshevist Russia to permit any suspicion that Bolshevism
is a pro-Jewish movement. The evidence upon this point is overwhelming.

I am quite well aware that the statement that pogroms have been common in Bolshevist Russia
will be challenged and indignantly denied by many of our American defenders of the Bolsheviki,
Jews and Gentiles alike. It is none the less a well-attested fact. I have in my possession
a mass of evidence which amply proves the truth of the statement. At the same time, I do not
mean to charge that the Soviet government has deliberately instigated or authorized pogroms.
Indeed, I am quite ready to believe that the Soviet government has honestly desired and attempted
to prevent such pogroms. Lenin accepted the presidency of an organization formed to combat
anti-Semitism. The truth seems to be that just as pogroms have admittedly taken place in the
new republic of Poland, despite the efforts of the Polish government to prevent them, and just
as pogroms were carried out by Denikin's Volunteer Army despite General Denikin's attempts
to prevent them, and the severe punishments inflicted by him upon the culprits, so regular
Bolshevist troops in southern Russia have plundered and murdered Jews and raped and mutilated
Jewish women and girls. Just as these lines are being written word comes, from sources of unquestionable
authority, of pogroms against the Jews in the Ukraine, in which Bolshevist troops participated.

The Pogrom Victims' Relief Committee of the Russian Red Cross Society published a report of
its investigations of the Jewish pogroms in southern Russia during the period when General
Denikin's forces were fighting the Bolsheviki. The report, based upon evidence of unquestionable
reliability, showed that Jews had been plundered and murdered not only by disorderly troops
of Denikin's Volunteer Army, and by the troops of Petlura and by the robber bands led by "atamans,"
like Makhno, but also by regular Bolshevist troops. The report attributes to the latter the
destruction of at least thirteen Jewish communities in southern Russia and the murder of five
hundred Jews. And this is only one report of many. Before me as I write is the account given
by an eyewitness of the pogrom which opened at Novo-Poltavka on September 1, 1919, and lasted
through the whole of the week following. More than one hundred Jews were murdered, numerous
women and girls were raped, and the entire colony was plundered. This pogrom was carried on
by the guerrilla bands led by "atamans" Makhno and Grigoriev, together with regular Bolshevist
troops.[2] Do you ask me to believe that these pogroms were deliberately brought about as part
of a "Jewish" conspiracy?

Under the rule of the Bolsheviki the local organs of Jewish autonomy in the Ukraine were entirely
destroyed.[3] The chairman of the Jewish Community in Kiev, Mr. D. Levenstein, has testified
to the brutal treatment of the Jews in that city during the Bolshevist occupation. Vladimir
Kossovsky, one of the foremost leaders of the "Bund," well known in Socialist international
circles, in an article published in the Jewish Socialist monthly, Die Zukunft, of New York, says:

    Jewish pogroms in Bolshevist Russia have occurred with
    particular intensity during the first half of 1918. I shall
    point, as an example, to the pogroms in Gulkhov, in the
    government of Chernigov, where they assumed a particularly
    brutal form, and in a number of places in the Poliesiye. All
    of these pogroms were the work of Bolshevist troops.

    The Glukhov pogrom, which has attained such sad notoriety,
    started on February 28, 1918, after a Bolshevist detachment had
    entered the city. The Red Army men, transformed into savage
    beasts, murdered the arrested Jews who were being taken under
    guard to the building of the Soviet, and the street which
    housed the Soviet was literally sodden with Jewish blood. All
    Jewish stores and residences were sacked. Peasants from the
    near-by villages soon joined the plunderers of the Red Guard in
    their work of looting and pillaging. According to newspaper
    reports, four hundred and fifty Jews were murdered, among these
    some Jewish soldiers who had been rewarded with "St. George"
    medals for bravery. Long lists of victims--such as could be
    identified--were at that time published in the newspapers. The
    pogrom was directed exclusively against the Jews, and the
    Christian population of the city did not suffer in the least.

Concerning the pogroms in Poliesiye, Kossovsky quotes from the official organ of the Menshevist
party, the Novaia Zaria, of Moscow, June 10, 1918, the following:

    The large Jewish population of this region (Poliesiye) finds
    itself in a particularly tragic situation. The "activity" of the
    Red Army in Novogorod-Sieversk, Seredina-Buda, and Glukhov,
    where the Soviet detachments massacred the Jewish populations,
    has found an echo in other cities, and the sword of Damocles
    hangs at present over the unfortunate Jewish people. In the city
    of Potchep the Jews saved themselves from a pogrom by collecting
    in time fifteen thousand rubles, which they handed over to the
    pogrom-mad Red Army detachment upon its entrance into the city,
    in addition to giving it a splendid reception and a sumptuous
    feast. As reward for this reception the bashi-bazouks of the
    Soviet decided to spare the city.

Pogroms and other manifestations of anti-Semitism have been so common in Bolshevist Russia
as to make the "Jewish question" one of extreme difficulty and importance. In numerous Soviets,
notably Yaroslavl, Vitebsk, and Smolensk, Jewish members were openly insulted by the Bolsheviki;
such epithets as "szhid!" ("sheeny!") were hurled at the Jewish members. Once more I quote
from the article by Kossovsky:

    In the provinces the pogrom mania invaded even the Soviets, not
    mentioning the Red Army which became more and more infected with
    it. According to the Kiev Naiye Zait, in the Vitebsk Soviet
    shouts were heard, "Chase the Jews out of the Soviets and its
    institutions!" In the Yaroslavl Soviet, according to information
    printed in the Moscow Social-Democratic newspaper, Vperiod,
    there were often heard insulting and shameful cries directed
    against the Jews. In Smolensk, according to Svobodnaya Rossia,
    members of the Red Army would come to the Soviet and demand that
    Jews be barred from holding posts as war commissaries and
    commanders. A lively anti-Semitic propaganda was carried on in
    Moscow and Petrograd, too, though it never reached the stage of
    a pogrom. In Petrograd anti-Jewish posters, signed by a "Kamorra
    of the People's Revenge," were spread broadcast. As a result of
    the apprehensiveness aroused, detachments for self-defense were
    organized by the Jews of Moscow. In Petrograd the Bolshevist
    authorities did not permit the organization of self-defense
    bodies, fearing lest the weapons of the self-defense detachments
    be turned against the Soviet.

    Upon the initiative of the Petrograd Jewish Community the day of
    May 23, 1918, was designated as a Jewish National Day of
    Mourning throughout Russia as a protest against the latter-day
    Jewish pogroms in Russia. On that day the Jews were to close all
    their business establishments, not to issue newspapers, etc.,
    etc. The May 23d issue of the Petrograd Jewish daily, Unser
    Tagblat, appeared in a black border and was full of articles
    relating to anti-Jewish attacks and pogroms, entitled: "Protest
    by Mourning," "Let Jewish Blood Boil," "The Day of Sorrow," "The
    Bloody Roll (Statistics Concerning Jewish Pogroms)." Managed affair
    with skill, address and indomitable perseverance. Resisted all
    temptation to make long speeches; pegged away at his Amendments,
    and carried the most important in teeth of the Ulstermen.

"All
    very well," said DUNBAR BARTON, "JACKSON giving way to those
    fellows, and Prince ARTHUR saying, as TOOLE does on the House-boat,
    'Oh, it's nothing!' It may be nothing to him, but it's a good
    deal to us. MACARTNEY and I have done our duty.

For myself I shall say no more. I was christened DUNBAR BARTON. Henceforth let me be known as DUM
BARTON."

Business done.--More than ever.

Friday.--Met BROOKFIELD in corridor just now. Capital fellow BROOKFIELD, though not very well
known in House, much less to fame outside. Was in the 13th Hussars; is now promoted to the Lieutenant-Colonelcy
of 1st Cinque Ports Rifle Volunteers. Has sat for Rye these seven years, but never yet spoke.
This the more remarkable since he is a trained student of art of public speaking; has, indeed,
just written profound treatise on the business. FISHER UNWIN sent me copy from Paternoster
Square. Sat up all night reading it. The speech of "our worthy Member," proposing "The Town and
Trade of X," is thrilling. Another, put into the mouth of "the youngest
bachelor present," responding for "the Ladies," makes your flesh creep.
BROOKFIELD's idea novel and ingenious. Sets forth what he calls a
conventional speech. This fills up Column A. In Column B. he comments
on it, rather severely sometimes; in Column C. throws out suggestions
which, duly followed, make speech perfect.

So far as I have been able to discover, there is not a large Jewish Community in Russia which
has not repudiated Bolshevism. Not in a single instance has the support of the leaders of such
a Community been given to the Lenin-Trotzky regime. For example, I have before me the report
of the annual general meeting of the Jewish Community of Archangel, which took place on May
11, 1919. Therein is contained a Memorandum by the Council of the Community on the relation
of the Jews to Bolshevism. The Memorandum points out that, while it is true that there are
Jews among the leaders of the Bolsheviki, it is also true that there are many Jews among the
leaders of the anti-Bolshevist forces. It names such men as MM. Vinaver, Gotz, Minor, Bliumkin
(who assassinated Count Mirbach), Kannengisser (who shot Uritzki), and Dora Kaplan (who attempted
to assassinate Lenin and forfeited her own life).

The Memorandum asks the non-Jewish world to remember that all of the Jews connected with the
Bolshevist movement in any prominent capacity are apostates, that not one of them ever took
the slightest part in the affairs of Russian Jewry, and that the Jewish people only learned
of their existence at about the same time and in the same way as the Russian people in general
became aware of the existence of such non-Jewish Bolshevist leaders as Lenin, Lunarcharsky,
Tchitcherin, Krylenko, Dybenko, and many others. Attention is called to the fact that prominent
Jewish national workers in Russia have been subjected to the same persecution and maltreatment
by the Bolsheviki as the public-spirited men and women of other nationalities. The Memorandum
cites the imprisonment of Doctor Maze, Rabbi of the Moscow Community, and the confiscation
of the buildings belonging to the Petrograd Jewish Community, where the cultural and religious
institutions of the Jews of that city were centered. I commend to the attention of all fair-minded
men and women the following paragraph from this document:

    Aside from this group of Jewish Bolshevist leaders there is the
    Jewish people, the many millions of the Jewish population of
    Russia. The unassuming representatives of that Jewish Community
    of Archangel take the liberty to affirm that neither the Jewish
    people as a whole, nor any of its socially organized groups, are
    responsible for the savagery, violence, acts of blasphemy, and
    mockery of human rights which characterize the Bolshevist
    regime.

    The Jewish people are fully familiar with acts of brutality,
    with the Red Terror, familiar from long-past experience and from
    present experience in Bolshevist Russia, together with all the
    other nations inhabiting that unhappy territory. But the hands
    of the Jewish masses, of all the classes of the Jewish people,
    are not stained with this blood. We have not heard, and we
    believe that we shall never hear, of any act of terror
    committed by any masses of Jews led either by Jews or by
    non-Jews.

    Let the Jewish Bolsheviki stand accused and condemned of their
    guilt like their compatriots of other nationalities, but there
    must be no room for generalization and wholesale accusation when
    the people as a whole are guiltless and where millions,
    permeated by a powerful cohesive force of an ancient culture
    organically foreign to the spirit of violence and vandalism,
    stand apart from a few individual persons.

Quite similar to the foregoing is a Memorandum addressed by the Council of the Vladivostok
Jewish Community to the Russian people. The concluding paragraphs of this address seem to me
to be a complete and crushing refutation of the monstrous calumny that is being so assiduously
spread among our people:

    In the present historic movement the Council of the Jewish
    Community of Vladivostok deems it its sacred civil duty to come
    forward with the following protest. The Council declares that:
    (1) The many millions of the Russian Jewry reject every
    responsibility for the crimes committed against Russia by a
    small group of Jewish renegades who have nothing in common with
    the Jews and have long since broken off all connections with
    them, such as Bronstein-Trotzky, Nakhamkes-Steklov,
    Apfelbaum-Zinoviev, Joffe, Kamenev, and others connected with
    Bolshevism, just as the Russian, Lettish, Polish, Georgian,
    Armenian, and other nationalities cannot be held to answer for
    the deeds and misdeeds of Bolshevist leaders who were born in
    their midst. To MRS. EDGEWORTH.
    
    CANTERBURY, April 21.
    
    I wrote to your dear father the history of our visit to Mr.
    Wren's at Wroxall Abbey, and Kenilworth, and Warwick, and Stratford-upon-Avon,
    and our pleasant three hours at Oxford. When we were looking at the
theatre, Mr. Biddulph told us, that when all the Emperors and Kings
came with the Regent, the theatre was filled in every part; but such
was the hush you could have heard a pin drop till the Prince put his
foot upon the threshold, when the whole assembly rose with a tremendous
shout of applause. The Russian Jews have lost over one hundred
    thousand of their brothers and sons in killed and wounded in the
    war with Germany. Thousands of Jews are found at present in the
    ranks of the armies of Admiral Kolchak and of General Denikin.
    (3) Bolshevism has ruined hundreds of thousands of Jewish
    merchants, business men, artisans, and men in various
    enterprises, and has completely destroyed the entire population
    of the Northwestern Territories. Thousands of Jewish families
    have been deported from Soviet Russia and are now dragging out
    a miserable existence as refugees in Siberia, in the Ural
    region, and in the border cities.

    The Soviet government has shot and is still shooting Jewish
    public men, lawyers, engineers, physicians, and workmen who have
    participated in the struggle against the Soviet rule. In the
    near future there will be published documents and irrefutable
    facts revealing the number of Jewish lives and the billions of
    Jewish wealth that have perished during the past two years in
    the struggle with Bolshevism.

    The Vladivostok Jewish Community protests to the Russian public
    opinion and to the honest and independent Russian press against
    the falsehoods, insinuations, and calumnies directed against the
    Jewish people in such profusion by the enemies of humanity and
    the state.

