"Water," as a symbol or metaphor, is of frequent occurrence and varied import in Scripture.
Among its diversified significations, perhaps that of a destructive element is most common.
(Ps. xviii. 4; xxxii. 6.) It is indeed often used to denote gospel blessings, (as Is. lv. 1;
John vii. 38; Rev. xxii. 17.) As here used, the "water as a flood," represents something intended
by the dragon for the destruction of the woman. If he cannot destroy her by fire, he aims to
overwhelm her with water. This water comes out of the dragon's "mouth." So of the "unclean
spirits," (ch. xvi. 13.) Soul-destroying errors,--heresies,--are undoubtedly intended. If he
cannot devour as a roaring lion, he will endeavour to deceive and seduce as a cunning serpent.
We are therefore instructed hereby to look for "damnable heresies" to prevail, accompanied
and followed by popular commotions and licentiousness. The age in which we live is remarkably
characterized by false systems and impious theories. Speculative atheism caused the French
revolution, and led to the erection of the United States government; which, having openly declared
independence of England, soon after virtually declared independence of God. France, Germany,
England and the United States, have all been pervaded with infidel and atheistical sentiments;
and these, whether propagated under the name of solid science or polite literature, have corrupted
the public mind for generations. In the name of science, treating of the material or moral
world, the agents of the dragon have been exceedingly successful. Metaphysicians and geologists
have constructed systems which would exclude the Almighty from the heavens and the earth. But
however active and zealous these laborers in the service of the dragon, they do not reach the
popular ear but in part. Those sons of Belial who devise false systems of religion under the
name of Christianity, have been still more pernicious to the nations, and dangerous to the
church. If the church of Rome cannot prevail with kings as before, to execute her cruel sentences
of death upon heretics, she is not less active in disseminating her idolatrous and superstitious
dogmas among the nations. By freemasonry, odd-fellowship, temperance associations, and a countless
number of affiliated societies,--the offshoots of popery and infidelity, the dragon still assails
the woman. Reason, toleration, humanity, charity and liberality are terms which have been selected
and abused by the servants of the devil "to deceive the hearts of the simple." These are alike
the watchwords of the spiritual seducer and the political agitator. What dogma or heresy so
absurd,--what conduct so immoral, as not to find patronage in the journals of the day? or not
to find tolerance or protection under the fostering wings of church or state? What is impiously
called "free love," as well as avowed infidelity and polygamy, are patronized by constituted
authorities in Christendom. When taking a survey of the errors and systems of error, hostile
to the honor of Messiah and the free grace of his gospel, how few can be found in the different
nations of the earth, who "overcame by the blood of the Lamb!" The religions established by
the nations of the world are all more or less tainted with the errors, and disfigured by the
ceremonies of the church of Rome. Surely we have before our eyes a constant fulfilment of the
prophecy under consideration. To all outward appearance the woman is in the wilderness. She
is in fact so obscure that some of her sons begin to question her visibility. They are ready
to cry in despondency,--"The witnesses are slain."--They are mistaken. This is their infirmity.
The 1260 years are not yet expired, nor the testimony finished. "When the enemy shall come
in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall lift up a standard against him." (Isa. lix. 19.)
The mystic woman is yet in the wilderness, and there she is nourished with the hidden manna
"a time, times and half a time," "forty and two months, or twelve hundred and sixty days,"--that
is, years; for, as formerly noticed, all these expressions mean the same period of time; the
period during which the witnesses prophesy, on the one side, and the gentiles tread the outer
court, on the other. The profanation of the holy city,--the church nominal, and the testimony
of the witnesses against that conduct, is the same contest which in this chapter is represented
under other symbols. The waters of the symbolic flood have spread over all the nations of Christendom,
corrupting the very fountains of natural and moral science, literature, politics and religion;
so that hardly any principle is accepted by the human mind as settled, but all is thrown into
debate. Man's intellect, craving substantial nourishment, and thirsting for refreshment which
nothing but the water of life can supply, vibrates between ritualism and skepticism in our
day. The flood from the dragon's mouth, consisting of truth and error, a combination of Christianity,
refined idolatry and speculative atheism, fails to satisfy the necessary cravings of the immortal
soul. "There be many that say, Who will show us any good?" (Ps. iv. 6.)

In this state of the popular mind, there is a general sentiment which discountenances penalties
inflicted for mere opinion. The cry of toleration,--"freedom of speech and of the press," resounds
in the public ear among most communities since the dragon was cast down from the mystic heaven.
This popular sentiment is not an expression of the law of charity, actuating hearts influenced
by divine grace; but rather originates from indifference alike to the claims of Messiah and
the destinies of mankind. Thus "the earth helps the woman." Indeed, the nations of Christendom,
contrary to their former policy, are now much more tolerant of ecclesiastical than of political
heresies. With few exceptions, the policy of the nations at the present time is to discriminate,
not among churches, but among religions. The popular voice is obviously in favor of dissevering
that alliance between church and state, from which mankind have suffered in past generations.
While every earthly potentate, usurping the place and prerogatives of the Mediator, assumed
to dictate the faith and worship of his subjects, all dissenters and recusants must necessarily
be subjected to penalties. Such was the policy of the dragon for centuries, while in the heavens
of ecclesiastical and civil power. The nominal church established by the state, defined heresy;
and the heresy found by the church became rebellion against the civil authority. Of course
the saints were then executed as traitors. It may have meant the cane-plant, for instance, before
its sweetness was known. Then it is possible that a derivative and modified form of the same
word should happen to drift into that precise phonetic; form which is accordant with that
property. But the marvel, and the point of importance is, that so soon as this happens, the 'instinct'
of the race, even that of Professor Müller himself, remains good enough to recognize the fact. 'Who
does not imagine,' he says, 'that he hears something sweet in the French sucre, sucré?' But
why do we all imagine that we hear what does not exist? The uniformity of the imagination proves it
to be a real perception. If the universal consciousness of mankind be not valid evidence,
where shall we hope to find it?

The consideration of Analogy as existing between the Ultimate Elements of Sound and Ultimate Rational
Conceptions will be the subject of the next paper.

FLOWER ODORS.

There is a sheltered nook in a certain garden, where, on a sunny spring morning, the passer-by
inhales with startled pleasure the very soul of the 'sweet south,' and, stooping down, far
in among brown and crackling leaves, lo the blue hoods of English violets! The fragrance of
the violet! What flower scent is like it? Does not the subtle sweetness--half caught, half
lost upon the wind--at times sweep over one a vague and thrilling tenderness, an exquisite emotion,
partly grief and partly mild delight?

The violet is the poet's darling, perhaps because its frail breath seems to waft from out the
delicate blue petals the rare imaginings native to a poet's soul.

May it not be that thus, in the eloquence of perfume, it is but rendering to him who can best
respond thereto, a revelation of its inner essences?--showing, to him who can comprehend the sign, a
reason why it grows.

Is this too fanciful? Certainly the violet was not made in vain--and in the Eternal Correspondence known
to higher intelligences than our own, there surely must exist a grand and beautiful Flower lore,
wherein each blossom has an individual word to speak, a lesson to unfold, by form and coloring,
and, more than all, by exhaled fragrance.

Doubtless there is a mystery here too deep for us in this gross world to wholly understand;
but can we not search after knowledge? Would we not like to grasp an enjoyment less merely of the
senses from the geranium's balm and the mayflower's spice?
And notice here how strongly association binds us by the sense of
smell--the sense so closely connected with the brain that, through
its instrumentality, the mind, it is said, is quickest reached, is
soonest moved. So that when perfumes quiver through us, are we oftenest
constrained to blush and smile, or shrink and shiver. Perhaps through
perfumes also memory knocks the loudest on our heart-doors; until
it has come to pass that unto scented handkerchief or withering leaf
has been given full power to fire the eye or blanch the cheek; while
from secret drawers one starts appalled at flower breaths, stifling,
shut up long ago. The sprays themselves might drop unheeded down--dead
with the young hopes that laid them there--but the old-time emotion
wraps one yet in that undying--ah, how sickening! fragrance.

So in
the very nature of the task proposed is couched assistance, since
thus to the breath of the flowers does association lend its own interpretation,
driving deep the sharpest stings or dropping down the richest consolation
through the most humble plants. But is this the end of the matter? "The dragon
was wroth with the woman." Malice overcomes reason. He knows that he cannot finally prevail,--that
"no weapon formed against her shall prosper;" yet he continues to vent his rage. The mode of
attack is to be different from what it was in the second struggle. He is said to "make war,"--to
resort to open violence, to employ the agency of the civil power, the beast of the bottomless
pit, (ch. xi. 7;) for this third and last war, waged by the dragon agrees in time with the
slaying of the witnesses. This third onset agrees also with the "third woe-trumpet," the "vintage"
and the last "vial;" and immediately precedes the introduction of the millennium. "The remnant
of the woman's seed" are so called with reference to those of her offspring who had suffered
death under pagan and papal Rome, (ch. vi. 9.) Perhaps also we may suppose the number to be
comparatively few at the time of the last war with the dragon; as during the whole period of
the 1260 years, it was the aim of the dragon, through his instruments, to wear out the saints
of the Most High. (Dan. vii. 25.) The character which the Holy Spirit gives of these sufferers
proves them to be the woman's seed. They "keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony
of Jesus Christ." This is the special ground of the devil's hostility towards them. A more
comprehensive and definite description of true believers is not to be found in the whole Bible.
In matters of religion they adhere strictly to the commandments of God. They will not introduce,
nor permit to be introduced, any corruptions into the doctrines of grace or into the matter
of God's worship. The temple, altar and worshippers must stand the measurement of God's word
in their fellowship. No human traditions or innovations are to be tolerated. But besides their
conscientious care to have all the laws of the house of God duly observed, these remaining
witnesses sustain and propagate the testimony of their predecessors, with such additional facts
as they may have collected in their own time, for the personal glory, the offices and work
of Jesus Christ. This testimony will necessarily bring them into collision with the children
of those who killed their fathers in the same quarrel. Like their fathers, "they have the sentence
of death in themselves, that they should not trust in themselves, but in God which raiseth
the dead,--not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection." (2 Cor.
i. 9; Heb. xi. 35.) For as already hinted, this remnant is to "overcome by the blood of the
Lamb and by the word of their testimony," as others did; and in death to gain the final victory
over death by vital union to their living Lord, "being made conformable to his death." (Heb.
ii. 14, 15.)

CHAPTER XIII.

Vs. 1-10.--This chapter may be considered as an explication or commentary upon the seventh
chapter of Daniel's prophecy, and a farther elucidation of what is revealed under different
symbols in the two preceding chapters; and no one can have an intelligent understanding of
its contents without a competent knowledge of the symbols employed in those chapters. Here
the Holy Spirit has given a most graphic, intelligible and comprehensive exhibition of the
complex power which the dragon employs, to persecute and slay the witnessing servants of Christ.
Hitherto the devil has conducted the war against the saints through the agency of the beast
of the pit, (ch. xi. 7,) and those allies called "his angels:" (ch. xii. 7:) but there has
been a vail of obscurity hanging over these agencies. Who the beast and other allies of the
dragon are, it is the very design of this chapter to disclose, with greater precision and clearness
than heretofore. In a word, we have here the full portrait of THE GREAT ANTICHRIST. The distinct
features and component parts of this complex and diabolical system of hostility to the Lord
and his Anointed, are presented in detail for our inspection. And it is a fact, that by a competent
knowledge of this hostile combination, the suffering saints of God have been hitherto enabled
to direct their testimony with intelligence and efficacy against their appropriate objects.
And although the developments of providence in past centuries, and those transpiring in our
own generation, are calculated to shed light upon this and collateral prophecies; yet the gross
conceptions of the illiterate in the contemplation of prophetic symbols on the one hand, and
the reckless disregard of scripture rules and usage by the learned on the other, have greatly
contributed to the present lamentable ignorance and culpable indifference of most Christians.
For people cannot feel an interest in that of which they are ignorant. But to be "willingly
ignorant" of that which may and ought to be known, is one of the characteristic sins of a generation
of impenitent and profane "scoffers." (2 Pet. iii. 3, 5.) On the other hand, all who humbly
and earnestly desire to know the mind of God for their direction in faith and holiness, shall
assuredly obtain the necessary instruction. (Dan. vii. 16: viii. 15; John xvi. 13; 1 Cor. xiv. 38.)

In these first ten verses are contained the characteristics of that beast whose origin is given,
ch. xi. 7. There we had no particular description of this personage; only he was the agent
by whom the witnesses were opposed in open warfare, and by whom they were finally killed. Now
we have a more full account of his origin, character, achievements and duration. This personage
is denominated a "beast." So are designated other characters, who are very different from this,
(ch. iv. 6.) In that place we intimated that the authorized version is imperfect; and that
either "living creatures" or simply "animals," which latter we prefer, is that which the reader
is to understand from the original word. Not only are the "four animals" different in origin,
nature and agency from the "beast;" but in all these respects they are morally opposite. This
is a ravenous beast; a beast of prey. Elsewhere the word is translated a "wild beast," a "venomous
beast," a "viper." (Acts x. 12; xxviii. 4.) This beast is the same which appeared in vision
to the prophet Daniel, (ch. vii. 3.) Of the four great beasts which that prophet saw, this
is the last. All the preceding are described by their resemblance to some known animals, but
each is ferocious,--"a lion, bear, leopard." The fourth is a nondescript; there is no species
in the animal kingdom that can represent it; only it was "diverse from all the beasts that
were before it," (v. 7.) These four beasts represent "four kings," (v. 17,) that is, "kingdoms,"
(v. 23,) or dynasties. Now all interpreters agree that these four dynasties are the same as
those symbolized in Nebuchadnezzar's dream, (ch. ii. 31-43.) The different parts of the "image"
answer to the four beasts; and these again are the symbols of the Babylonian, Medo-Persian,
Grecian and Roman empires. Thus far, all sober expositors are agreed. Also, there is a like
agreement that John's first beast identifies with Daniel's fourth,--the Roman empire. This
is obvious from the general description by both prophets,--"having seven heads and ten horns."
(Dan. vii. 7; Rev. xiii. 1.)

The origin of this beast is threefold,--"out of the sea," (v. 1,) "out of the bottomless pit,"
(ch. xi. 7; xvii. 8,) and "out of the earth." (Dan. vii. 17.) Out of the sea of the commotions
arising from the incursions of the northern barbarians, by whom the Roman empire was dismembered.
(Dan. vii. 24.) This is the result of revolution,--"the sea." The Roman empire, especially
as nominally Christian, is thus characterized as being "earthly, sensual, devilish," a suitable
agent of the dragon.

The fact of the ten horns of the beast, now wearing crowns, proves that the time to which the
prophecy refers, is that which followed the division of the empire into ten kingdoms. The seven
heads of the beast have a double significance,--seven different forms of government, and seven
mountains, afterwards to be more fully explained, (ch. xvii. 9, 10.) The "name of blasphemy"
may indicate "eternal city, mistress of the world."--Of this characteristic of the beast, other
examples will be discovered hereafter.

Daniel was solicitous to "know the truth (interpretation) of the fourth beast, which was diverse
from all the others," (ch. vii. 19.) Although "diverse from all the others" in geographical
extent and destructive power, this fourth beast combined in one all the ravenous propensities
of the three predecessors, but in reverse order. The "leopard, bear and lion of Daniel," by
which Grecian, Persian and Chaldean dynasties were symbolized, are all comprised in John's
beast of the sea,--the antichristian Roman empire. (Jer. 1. 17; li. Then the king said, Hang
him thereon." (Esth. iii. 1, 9; vii. 9.) Such were the crimes and such the punishments of the
enemies of God's people in Babylon and Persia, as already matter of inspired history: and had
we equally full and authentic records of the punishments as we have of the cruelties of Antiochus
and other successors of Alexander the Great, the king of Greece, we would see, as in the other
cases, "the just reward of the wicked." Of all these idolatrous, tyrannical and persecuting
powers, which the Divine Spirit represented by beasts of prey, it was foretold that they were
to be removed in succession and with violence. This fourth beast, "dreadful and terrible and
strong exceedingly, was to devour and break in pieces, and stamp the residue with the feet
of it." (Dan. vii. 7.) Moreover, while it is predicted of them that "they had their dominion
taken away," it is also added,--"yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time," (v.
12.) That is, though their distinct and successive dominions were severally swept from the
earth, yet their lives,--the diabolical principles by which they had been actuated survived;
and these passed, by a kind of transmigration, into the body of the fourth beast. This transition
of animating principles or imperial policy of inveterate hostility to the kingdom of God, we
think, is plainly indicated by the three features of this beast of the sea, the "leopard, bear
and lion." If these three "slew their thousands," this monster has "slain his ten thousands"
of the saints; and the remnant of the woman's seed are yet to be "slain as they were," (ch.
vi. 11.)

"The dragon gave him his power,"--physical force, "his seat" or throne,--his right to reign,
"and great authority"--dominion--by the voice of the people. Thus, it is obvious that the seven-headed,
ten-horned beast is the first, and the oldest, among the combined enemies of the Christian
church; all of whose origin is from the dragon, the abyss or bottomless pit. The writers of
the church of Rome, while forced to acknowledge that this beast is emblematical of the Roman
empire, still insist that pagan Rome is intended. It is sufficient in opposition to this false
interpretation to observe, that the beast appears to John with crowns, not upon his heads,
but upon his horns, denoting the actual division of the empire into ten kingdoms: an event
which did not transpire till after the empire had become nominally Christian under the reign
of Constantine the Great. The reign of this emperor and his successors, by their largesses
fostered the luxurious propensities of the Christian ministry, and so contributed to prepare
the way for the rise of the next enemy in this antichristian confederacy against the witnesses.--The
"head wounded unto death is the sixth. John says expressly, elsewhere, "five are fallen, and
one is, and the other is not yet come," (ch. xvii. 10.) The "five fallen" were, kings, consuls,
dictators, decemvirs, and military tribunes. All these forms of civil government had passed
before the time of the apostle. Now the very gist and crux of this whole question of Language consists
in confounding or not confounding a case like this with mere Onomatopoieia, or the direct and
simple imitation of one sound by another. All that Professor Müller says against the Origin
of Language in this 'bow-wow' way is exceedingly well said; and it is important that it should
be said. But unconsciously he is now confounding with the Bow-wow, something else and totally
different; and something which is just as vital and profound in regard to the whole question
of the origin and true basis of the reconstruction of Language, as the thing with which he confounds
it is trivial and superficial.

The point is so important that I beg the reader's best attention to it, in order that he may
become fully seized of the idea.

I can imitate very closely the buzz of a bee, by forcing the breath through my nearly-touching
teeth. A mimic can imitate the natural sounds of many animals, and other sounds heard in Nature.
This mere imitation is what Lingual Scholars have dignified by the high-sounding and rather repulsive
technicality, Onomatopoieia. In the early and simple period of Lingual Science much has been
made, in striving to account for the Origin of Language, of this faculty of imitation, and of
the fact that there are undoubtedly certain words in every language consisting of such imitations.
It is against this simple and superficial theory that Professor Müller has argued so well. But
in these words sucre, sucré, incautiously included by him as instances of the same thing, we are
in the presence of a very different problem. To imitate one sound by another sound is a mere simple,
external, and trivial imitation; onomatopoieia, and nothing more than that. But to imitate a sound,
by a taste, or to recognize that such an imitation has occurred,
is a testimony to the existence of that recondite and all-important
echo of likeness through domains of Being themselves the most unlike,
which we call ANALOGY.

That we do recognize such analogy or correspondence of meaning, that Professor Müller himself does
so, is admitted when he tells us that another form of the words in question is 'not at all
sweet-sounding.' It is not in this perception, therefore, that we deceive ourselves, but only
in supposing that these particular words came to mean sugar, because they were sweet-sounding.
That there is this perception of the analogy in question is again confessed by the fact that
we have the same feeling in respect to the German süsse, sweet; while the English words sugar
and sweet, notwithstanding any greater familiarity of association, do not convey the same ideas
in the same marked degree. The words mellifluous (honey-flowing) and melody (honey-sound) are
themselves standing witnesses in behalf of the existence of the same perception. The fact that
we instinctually speak of a sweet voice, is another witness.

If, then, there is an echo of likeness (real analogy) between these two unlike spheres of Thought
and Being, Sound and Taste, may there not be precisely a similar echo through other and all
spheres; so that there shall be a Something in Number, in Form, in Chemical Constitution, in the
Properties of Mind, in Ultimate Rational Conceptions, in fine, that echoes to this idea, which,
by a stretch of the powers of Language, we call sweet, both in respect to Sound and Taste? May it
not have been precisely this Something and the other handful of primitive Somethings, each with
its multitudinous echoes, that the Nascent Intuition of the race laid hold of and availed itself
of irreflectively for laying the foundations of Speech? Again, may it not happen that the Reflective
Intellect should in turn discover intelligently (or reflectively) just that underlying system
of Analogy which the primitive Instinct was competent to appreciate unintelligently; and, by the
greater clearness of this intelligent perception, be able to elevate the Science of Language,
and found it upon a new and constructive, instead of upon this merely instinctual plane? To
all these questions the Universologists return an affirmative answer. They go farther, and aver
that this great intellectual undertaking is now fully achieved, and is only awaiting the opportunity
for elaborate demonstration and promulgation.

A word further on this subject. To pronounce the words sucre, sucré, süsse, the lips are necessarily
pinched or perked up, in a certain exquisite way, as if we were sucking something very gratifying
to the taste. This consideration carries us over to the further analogy
with shapes or forms, and, hence, with the Organic or Mechanical production
of sounds; another grand element, the main one, in fact, of the whole
investigation.

Among the infinite contingencies of the origin and
successive modifications of words, it is very possible that the word
'sarkhara, although meaning sugar in a particular tongue, may not
have primarily related to its property of sweetness; and that, therefore,
its phonetic form should not be accordant with that property. The rest of the horns
are no less blasphemous in their haughty pretensions. History attests that the martyrs of Jesus
denounced these encroachments on the prerogatives of Christ, and the intrinsic power of his
church, as "Erastian supremacies,--blasphemous supremacies." Most expositors tell us that the
blasphemies are chargeable to the Pope or to the Romish church. But this interpretation confounds
this beast of the sea with the apostate church of Rome; and indeed this confounding of symbols
and consequent mistaking of objects in actual history, are the primary errors of expositors
in nearly all their attempts at expounding the Apocalypse. This first beast of John, and fourth
of Daniel, however, is wholly secular or civil; and clearly distinguished by both inspired
prophets, from the other agents of the dragon, as we shall find in the subsequent part of this
chapter. This beast "blasphemes the name of God" by compelling men to worship idols and images,
enacting penal statutes and issuing bloody edicts to force their consciences. He "blasphemes
his tabernacle," when stigmatizing the assemblies of God's worshipping people as "traitorous
conspiracies, rendevouses of rebellion"--"and them that dwell in heaven," he blasphemes by
calling them "incendiaries, fanatics, enthusiasts, rebels and traitors;" for all these terms
of reproach are well authenticated in history, as heaped upon the faithful and heroic servants
of Christ. Those who suppose that the phrase "them that dwell in heaven," means saints departed
and angels as worshipped by papists in obedience to the Romish church, make two mistakes,--the
one, that ecclesiastical power is here intended, whereas we have already shown that the power
is civil; the other, that the word "heaven" is to be taken in a literal sense, contrary to
the symbolic structure of the whole context. All history, so far as authentic, teaches that
the civil powers throughout Christendom, attempt to coerce by penal inflictions the consciences
of all who refuse obedience to their commands, no less than the church of Rome. Even constitutional
guarantees of liberty of conscience have never secured the witnesses from the savage rage of
the beast or any of his infuriated horns. Tan is equivalent to T--n; the place of the dash being filled
by any vowel. T is readily replaced by th or d, and n by ng; as is known to every Philological
student. The object, which in English we call tin, and its name, are peculiar and important
in this connection, as combining the two ideas in question: 1st, that of outstretched surface
or thinness; and, 2d, that of a persistent tendency to give forth just that species of sound
which we call, by a slight shade of difference in the form of the
word, a din. Such is persecution.--The seventh verse, expressing
the beast's victory over the saints and the extent of his power, is explanatory of ch. xi.
7, 9; and the time of his continuance, (v. 5,) is the same as the treading under foot of the
city; (ch. xi. 2:) so that we are assured of the agreement in time between the events here
and those of the first part of the eleventh chapter. Also, the parties here presented are the
same as in the two preceding chapters, only they are exhibited in different aspects by appropriate
symbols.--The worshippers of the beast include all under his dominion except those "whose names
were written in the book of life."--This book is different both from the sealed book, (ch.
5;) and also from the open book, (ch. 10.) It is the register, as it were, of the names of
all whom the Father gave to the Son, to be by him brought to glory. Is there not, apart from
all that our personal interest may discover, in each flower an unchanging address all its own--an
unvaried salutation proffered ever to the world at large? Why is
a passion wafted through a nosegay? What purifies the air around a
lily? In the seventh chapter we had the angels employed in holding
the four winds of the earth, till these servants of God were sealed in their foreheads, before
the first alarm should be given by the trumpets. The book of life contained their names from
the foundation,--before the foundation of the world. (Eph. i. 4.) They were in time "sealed
with that Holy Spirit of promise," so that it was impossible to deceive them, either by lying
wonders or the serpent's sophistry. (Eph. i. 13; Matt. xxiv. 24.)--The Lamb may be said to
be "slain from the foundation of the world" in the purpose of God, (2 Tim. i. 9;) in sacrifice,
(Gen. iv. 4;) in the ceremonial law and prophecy. (Matt. xi. 13;) and in the efficacy of his
satisfaction rendered to divine justice, for which the Father gave him credit from the fall
of man. (Rom. iii. He shows that the word is derived from the Sanskrit 'sarkhara, 'which,' as
he says, 'is anything but sweet sounding.'

The question whether the words under consideration (sucre, sucré) are really sweet-sounding words,
Professor Müller decides by implication in the affirmative, and, perhaps, quite unconsciously,
by the very act of contrasting them with another word which, as he affirms, is not at all sweet
sounding.

But this is by far the more important point than that of the mere
historical genesis of the word; and a point which really touches vitally
the whole question of the nature and Origin of Language.

How should
any word be either sweet-sounding or not sweet-sounding? Sound is
a something which has no taste, and sweetness is a something which
makes no noise. Yet the understanding of its general outlines was at the bottom of the Reformation
by Luther, his colleagues and successors. Elsewhere, however, we may take occasion to notice
how vague, and inadequate, and bold, were some of their conceptions; all going to show the
seasonableness of the solemn admonition,--"If any man have an ear, let him hear."--The beast
is to be treated as he dealt with the victims of his cruelty. He is justly doomed to captivity
and death. "The beast was taken and--cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone,"
(ch. xix. 20.) "Tophet is ordained of old." It was used by the prophets as a figure of hell.
(Is. xxx. 33.) To this place, whence there is no redemption, this monstrous beast was to be
consigned, as predicted by the prophet Daniel, (vii. 11,)--"The beast was slain, and his body
destroyed, and given to the burning flame."--In the protracted contest of 1260 years with this
imperial power, "the patience and the faith of the saints" were exemplified. Faith and patience
would be more severely tried in this case than in any other; as the period of persecution was
to be of much longer continuance than any that had preceded since the beginning of the world.

