To choose the right word and to discard all others, this is the chief factor in good writing.
To learn good poetry by heart is to acquire help toward doing this, instinctively automatically
as other habits are acquired. In the affairs of life, then, is no form of good manners, no
habit of usage more valuable than the habit of good English.

Life's Enthusiasms

It is the layman's privilege to take the text for his sermons wherever he finds it. I take
mine from a French novel, a cynical story of an unpleasant person, Samuel Brohl, by Victor
Cherbuliez; And this is the text and the whole sermon:

"My son, we should lay up a stock of absurd enthusiasms in our youth or else we shall reach
the end of our journey with an empty heart, for we lose a great many of them by the way."

And my message in its fashion shall be an appeal to enthusiasm in things of life, a call to
do things because we love them, to love things because we do them, to keep the eyes open, the
heart warm and the pulses swift, as we move across the field of life. "To take the old world
by the hand and frolic with it;" this is Stevenson's recipe for joyousness. Old as the world
is, let it be always new to us as we are new to it. Let it be every morning made afresh by
Him who "instantly and constantly reneweth the work of creation." Let "the bit of green sod
under your feet be the sweetest to you in this world, in any world." Half the joy of life is
in little things taken on the run. Let us run if we must --even the sands do that--but let
us keep our hearts young and our eyes open that nothing worth our while shall escape us. And
everything is worth our while, if we only grasp it and its significance. As we grow older it
becomes harder to do this. A grown man sees nothing he was not ready to see in his youth. So
long as enthusiasm lasts, so long is youth still with us.

To make all this more direct we may look to the various sources from which enthusiasm may be
derived. What does the school give us in this direction? Intellectual drill, broadening of
mental horizon, professional training, all this we expect from school, college, and university
and in every phase of this there is room for a thousand enthusiasms. Moreover, the school gives
us comradeship, the outlook on the hopes and aspirations of our fellows. It opens to us the
resources of young life, the luminous visions of the boys that are to be men. We come to know
"the wonderful fellow to dream and plan, with the great thing always to come, who knows?" His
dream may be our inspiration as it passes, as its realization may be the inspiration of future
generations. In the school is life in the making, and with the rest we are making our own lives
with the richest materials ever at our hand. Life is contagious, and in the fact lies the meaning
of Comradeship. "Gemeingeist unter freien Geistern," comradery among free spirits: this is
the definition of College Spirit given us by Hutten at Greifeswald, four centuries ago. This
definition serves for us today. Life is the same in every age. All days are one for all good
things. They are all holy-days; to the freshman of today, all joys of comradery, all delights
of free enthusiasm are just as open, just as fresh as ever they were. From the teacher like
influences should proceed. Plodding and prodding is not the teacher's work. It is inspiration,
on-leading, the flashing of enthusiasms. A teacher in any field should be one who has chosen
his work because he loves it, who makes no repine because he takes with it the vow of poverty,
who finds his reward in the joy of knowing and in the joy of making known. It requires the
master's touch to develop the germs of the naturalist, the philosopher, the artist, or the
poet. Our teacher is the man who has succeeded along the line in which we hope to succeed,
whose success is measured as we hope to measure our own. Each leader of science and of intellectual
life is in some degree the disciple of one who has planned and led before him. There is a heredity
of intellect, a heredity of action, as subtle and as real as the heredity of the continuous
germ-plasm. Ask the teacher who has helped mould your life, who in turn was his own master.
In a very few generations you trace back your lineage to one of the great teachers the world
knows and loves. Who was your teacher in Natural History in America? Was he a pupil of Agassiz,
or was he a student of one of Agassiz's pupils? Or, again, are there three generations back
from you to the grand master of enthusiasms?

And there are masters in the art of living as well as in other arts and sciences. "A log with
Mark Hopkins at one end and myself at the other." That was Garfield's conception of a university.
It was said of Eliphalet Nott at Union College, that he "took the sweepings of other colleges
and sent them back to society pure gold." The older students of Stanford will always show the
traces of the master teacher Thoburn. "In terms of life," thus he construed all problems of
Science, of Philosophy, of Religion. In terms of life, Thoburn's students will interpret all
their own various problems, for in terms of life all things we do must finally be formulated.
Every observation we make, every thought of our minds, every act of our hands has in some degree
an ethical basis. It involves something of right or wrong, and without adhesion to right, all
thought, all action must end in folly. And there is no road to righteousness so sure as that
which has right living as a traveling companion.

The very humanity of men at large is in itself a source of inspiration. Study men on the trains,
at the ferry, on the road, in the jungles of the forest or in the jungles of great cities,--"through
the ages, every human heart is human." Look for the best, and the best shall rise up always
to reward you. One who has traveled among simple-living people, men and women we call savages,
because they live in the woods and not in cleared land or cities, will bear witness that a
savage may be a perfect gentleman. Now as I write their faces rise before me. Joyous, free
limbed, white toothed swimmers in Samoan surf, a Hawaiian eel-catcher, a Mexican peon with
his "sombrero trailing in the dust," a deferential Japanese farm boy anticipating your every
want, a sturdy Chinaman without grace and without sensitiveness, but with the saving quality
of loyalty to his own word, herdsmen of the Pennine Alps, Aleuts, Indians and Negroes, each
race has its noblemen and through these humanity is ennobled. It is worth while to go far from
Boston to find that such things are true.

And we may look not alone among primitive folk who have never envied us our civilization or
ever cared that we possessed it. Badalia Herodsfoot, in Kipling's story, lived and died in
darkest London. Gentle hearts and pure souls exist among our own unfortunates, those to whom
our society has shown only its destroying side. All misery and failure as well as all virtue
has its degrees, and our social scheme is still far from the demands of perfect justice. 

HABITAT.--Assam, Khasia hills, Tipperah hills, Burmah, Siam, and the Malayan peninsula.

DESCRIPTION.--"The general tint of the animal is yellowish-brown, freckled with dusky brown,
especially on the back; the spines, taken separately, are brown white at the root, and become
gradually darker to the point; the points of the spines on the back are very dark, being of
a blackish-brown colour. The long and stout bristles, which are mixed with the spines on the
back, are similarly coloured" (Waterhouse, 'Mammalia,' vol. ii. p. 472). The spines are flat on
the under-surface and concave on the upper, sharply pointed and broadest near the root. Mixed
with the spines on the back are long bristles, very stout, projecting some three inches beyond the
spines, which are only about an inch in length; below these is a scanty undergrowth of pale coloured
hairs; the tail is somewhat less than half the length of the head
and body, scaly, and at the end furnished with a large tuft of flattened
bristles from three to four inches long, of a dirty white colour,
with sometimes dusky tips; the ears are semi-ovate; whiskers long
and stout, and of a brown colour; muzzle hairy; feet short, five toes,
but the thumb very small, with a short rounded nail.

SIZE.--Head and body, 18 inches; tail, exclusive of tuft, 7-1/2 inches.

Specimens of this animal were sent home to the Zoological Gardens, from Cherrapoonjee in the
Khasia hills, by Dr. Jerdon. This species is almost the same as the African form (A. Africana).
They are about the same in size and form and in general appearance. This last is found in
such plenty, according to Bennett, in the Island of Fernando Po as to afford a staple article
of food to the inhabitants. Blyth was of opinion that the Indian animal is much paler and more
freckled than the African.

GENUS HYSTRIX--THE PORCUPINE.

"Spines cylindrical; tail short, covered with spines and slender-stalked open quills; nasal cavity
usually very large; air sinuses of frontals greatly developed; teeth
as in Atherura. The hind-feet with five toes; claws very stout."

The
hinder part of the body is covered by a great number of sharp spines,
ringed black and white, mostly tipped with white; the spines are hollow
or filled with a spongy tissue, but extremely tough and resistant,
with points as sharp as a needle. The song of birds, the swarming of bees, the meadow carpeted with flowers, the
first pink harbingers of the early spring, the rush of the waterfall, the piling up of the
rocks, the trail through the forest, the sweep of the surf, the darting of the fishes, the
drifting of the snow, the white crystals of the frost, the shrieking of the ice, the boom of
the bittern, the barking of the sea lions, the honk of the wild geese, the skulking coyote
who knows that each beast is his enemy and has not even a flea to help him "forget that he
is a dog," the leap of the salmon, the ecstasy of the mocking-bird and bobolink, the nesting
of the field-mice, the chatter of the squirrel, the gray lichen of the oak, the green moss
on the log, the poppies of the field and the Mariposa lilies of the cliff--all these and ten
thousand more pictures which could be called up equally at random and from every foot of land
on the globe--all these are objects of nature. All these represent a point of human contact
and the reaction which makes for youth, for virtue and for enthusiasm.

To travel is merely to increase the variety of contact by giving our time to it, and by extending
the number of points at which contact is possible. It is true, however, that the experiences
of the traveler cover a wider range and fill his mind with a larger and more varied store of
remembered delights. The very names of beloved regions call up each one its own picture. The
South Seas; to have wandered among their green isles is to have seen a new world, a new heaven
and a new earth. The white reef with its whiter rim of plunging surf, the swaying palms, the
flashing waterfall, the joyous people, straight as Greeks and colored like varnished leather,
the bread-fruit tree and the brown orange, the purple splendor of the vine called Bougainvillia,
and above all the volcanic mountains, green fringed with huge trees, with tree ferns and palms,
the whole tied together into an impenetrable jungle by the long armed lianas. The Sierra Nevada,
sweeping in majestic waves of stone, alive with color and steeped in sunshine. Switzerland,
Norway, Alaska, Tyrol, Japan, Venice, the Windward Islands and the Gray Azores, Chapultepec
with its dream of white-cloaked volcanoes, Enoshima and Gotemba with their peerless Fujiyama,
Nikko with its temples, Loch Lomond, Lake Tahoe, Windermere, Tintagel by the Cornish Sea, the
Yellowstone and the Canyon of the Colorado, the Crater Lake of Oregon, Sorrento with its Vesuvius,
Honolulu with its Pali, the Yosemite, Banff with its Selkirks, Prince Frederick's Sound with
its green fjords, the Chamounix with its Mont Blanc, Bern with its Oberland, Zermatt with its
Matterhorn, Simla with "the, great silent wonder of the snows."

"Even now as I write," says Whymper the master mountain climber, "they rise before me an endless
series of pictures magnificent in effect, in form and color. I see great peaks with clouded
tops, seeming to mount upward for ever and ever. I hear the music of distant herds, the peasant's
yodel and the solemn church bells. And after these have passed away, another train of thought
succeeds, of those who have been brave and true, of kind hearts and bold deeds, of courtesies
received from strangers' hands, trifles in themselves but expressive of that good-will which
is the essence of charity."

That poetry was a means of grace was known to the first man who wrote a verse or who sang a
ballad. It was discovered back in the darkness before men invented words or devised letters.
The only poetry you will ever know is that you learned by heart when you were young. Happy
is he who has learned much, and much of that which is good. Bad poetry is not poetry at all
except to the man who makes it. For its creator, even the feeblest verse speaks something of
inspiration and of aspiration. It is said that Frederick the Great went into battle with a
vial of poison in one pocket and a quire of bad verse in the other. Whatever we think of the
one, we feel more kindly toward him for the other.

Charles Eliot Norton advises every man to read a bit of poetry every day for spiritual refreshment.
It would be well for each of us if we should follow this advice. It is not too late yet and
if some few would heed his words and mine, these pages would not be written in vain.

I heard once of a man banished from New England to the Llano Estacado, the great summer-bitten
plains of Texas. While riding alone among his cows over miles of yucca and sage he kept in
touch with the world through the poetry he recited to himself.

This is good verse and it may well serve to relate the gray world of Northern Texas to the
many-colored world in which men struggle and die for things worthwhile, winning their lives
eternally through losing them.

Here are some other bits of verse which on the sea and on the lands, in the deserts or in the
jungles have served the same purpose for other men, perhaps indeed for you.

"It has been prophesied these many years I should not die save in Jerusalem, Which vainly I
supposed the Holy Land. But bear me to that chamber, there I'll lie, In this Jerusalem shall
Hardy die."

--

"And gentlemen of England now abed Shall think themselves accursed they were not here, And
hold their manhood cheap while any speaks Who fought with us upon St. Crispin's day."

--

"Let me come in where you sit weeping, aye: Let me who have not any child to die Weep with
you for the little one whose love I have known nothing of. The little arms that slowly, slowly
loosed Their pressure round your neck, the hands you used To kiss. Such arms, such hands I
never knew. May I not weep with you Fain would I be of service, say something Between the tears,
that would be comforting. But ah! So sadder than yourselves am I Who have no child to die."

--

"Your picture smiles as once it smiled; The ring you gave is still the same; Your letter tells,
O changing child, No tidings since it came! Give me some amulet That marks intelligence with
you, Red when you love and rosier red, And when you love not, pale and blue. Alas that neither
bonds nor vows Can certify possession. Torments me still the fear that Love Died in his last
expression."

--

"He walks with God upon the hills And sees each morn the world arise New bathed in light of
Paradise. If she be dead, respect the dead; If she be weeping, let her weep; If she be sleeping,
let her sleep; For lo, this woman named the stars.

And with these the more familiar verses beginning:

"Break, break, break, At the foot of thy crags, O Sea."

"Bells of the past whose long-forgotten music."

"Just for a handful of silver he left us."

"Beautiful Evelyn Hope is dead."

"O to be in England, now that April's there."

"The mists are on the Oberland, The Fungfrau's snows look faint and far."

"The word of the Lord by night To the watching pilgrims came."

"Fear, a forgotten form; Death, a dream of the eyes; We were atoms in God's great storm That
raged through the angry skies!"

And with this you may take many other bits of verse which were hammered out on the anvil of
the terrible Civil War.

Perhaps these bits of verse chosen almost at random will not appeal to your taste. Then find
some other verse that does. The range of literature is as wide as humanity. It touches every
feeling, every hope, every craving of the human heart. Select what you can understand--best,
what you can rise on tiptoe to understand. "It was my duty to have loved the highest." It is
your duty toward poetry to take the highest you can reach. Then learn it by heart. Learn it
when you are young. It will give you a fresh well of thoughts. It will form your style as a
writer. That is poetry in which truth is expressed in the fewest possible words, in words which
are inevitable, in words which could not be changed without weakening the meaning or throwing
discord into the melody. And to this end the masters of English, from Chaucer to Tennyson,
and in spite of perversities, we may add Emerson, Browning, and Kipling, have written English
verse. It is not in verse alone that poetry is written. Sweetness and light and truth can be
crystallized into prose, and prose well worthy to be borne in memory.

"I took a walk the other day," so Thoreau tells us, "on Spaulding's farm. It is only after
a long and serious effort to recollect that I became again aware of their cohabitance. If it
were not for such families as this I think I should move out of Concord."

In the arts of music and painting and sculpture, one may find not only professional satisfaction,
but the strength that comes from higher living and more lofty feeling. In the study of history
as biography, the acquaintance with the men and women of other times, those who have felt and
thought and acted and suffered to make a freer world for you and me, like inspiration may be
found. History is more than its incidents. It is the movement of man. It is the movement of
individual men, and it is in giving illumination to personal and racial characters that the
succession of incidents has its value. The picturesque individual, the man who could not be
counted with the mass, the David, the Christ, the Brutus, the Caesar, the Plato, the Alfred,
the Charlemagne, the Cromwell, the Mirabeau, the Luther, the Darwin, the Helmholtz, the Goethe,
the Franklin, the Hampden, the Lincoln, all these give inspiration to history. It is well that
we should know them, should know them all, should know them well--an education is incomplete
that is not built about a Pantheon, dedicated to the worship of great men.

With all this comes that feeling of dedication to the highest purposes which is the essential
feature of religion. Religion should be known by its tolerance, its broadmindedness, its faith
in God and humanity, its recognition of the duty of action.

And action should be understood in a large way, the taking of one's part in affairs worth doing,
not mere activity, nor fussiness, nor movement for movement's sake, like that of "ants on whom
pepper is sprinkled." As the lesser enthusiasms fade and fail, one should take a stronger hold
on the higher ones. "Grizzling hair the brain doth clear" and one sees in better perspective
the things that need doing. It is thus possible to grow old as a "grand old man," a phrase
invented for Gladstone, but which fits just as well our own Mark Twain. Grand old men are those
who have been grand young men, and carry still a young heart beneath old shoulders. There are
plenty of such in our country to-day, though the average man begins to give up the struggle
for the higher life at forty. President White, President Eliot, President Angell,--few men
have left so deep an impression on the Twentieth Century. Edward Everett Hale, the teacher
who has shown us what it is to have a country. Senator Hoar, Professor Agassiz, Professor Le
Conte, Professor Shaler,--all these, whatever the weight of years, remained young men to the
last. When Agassiz died, the Harvard students "laid a wreath of laurel on his bier and their
manly voices sang a requiem, for he had been a student all his life long, and when he died
he was younger than any of them." Jefferson was in the seventies when he turned back to his
early ambition, the foundation of the University of Virginia. The mother of Stanford University
was older than Jefferson before she laid down the great work of her life as completed. When
the heart is full, it shows itself in action as well as in speech. When the heart is empty,
then life is no longer worth while. The days pass and there is no pleasure in them. Let us
then fill our souls with noble ideals of knowledge, of art, of action.

We hear much in these days of the wickedness of power, of the evil behavior of men in high
places, of men in low places, and men whom the people have been perforce obliged to trust.
This is no new thing, though the struggle against it, the combination of the forces of reform
and blackmail, of dreamers and highwaymen, is offering some new phases.

There is a kind of music popular with uncritical audiences and with people who know no better,
which answers to the name of "ragtime." It is the music of those who do not know good music
or who have not the moral force to demand it. The spirit of ragtime is not confined to music:
graft is the ragtime of business, the spoils system the ragtime of politics, adulteration the
ragtime of manufacture. There is ragtime science, ragtime literature, ragtime religion. You
will know each of these by its quick returns. The spirit of ragtime determines the six best
sellers, the most popular policeman, the favorite congressman, the wealthiest corporation,
the church which soonest rents its pews.

But it does not, control the man who thinks for himself. It has no lien on the movements of
history, its decrees avail nothing in the fixing of truth. The movements of the stars pay it
no tribute, neither do the movements of humanity. The power of graft is a transient deception.
Emerson's parable of the illusions gives the clue to our time, to all time, in its contrast
of the things which appear with the things that abide.

"There is no chance and no anarchy in the Universe," says Emerson, "all is system and gradation.
A great commercial city it was, a wondrous city, full of all manner of men--eager, impulsive,
loving, enthusiastic men; men cunning and grasping, given over to all "high, hard lust and
wilful deed;" carefree, joyous men living in the present and taking their chances for the future;
men who have whistled all the airs that fluttering birds and frolicking children have learned
to sing; workmen of all grades, quiet, courageous and self-respecting, and weak, disgruntled
and incapable; bright-eyed, clear-headed, sagacious men, such men as build a state; hopeless,
broken, disappointed men, who have made this city of hope their last resort; gamblers, parasites,
bartenders, agitators, self-seekers, haters of men and haters of organization, impossibles,
men uncontrolled and uncontrollable, of every nation and with every dialect of the civilized
world--and of uncivilized worlds also;--the most cosmopolitan of all American towns, the one
fullest of the joy of living, the one least fearful of future disaster, "serene, indifferent
to fate," thus her own poets have styled her, and on no other city since the world began has
fate, unmalicious, mechanical and elemental, wrought such a terrible havoc. In a day this city
has vanished; the shock of a mighty earthquake forgotten in an hour in the hopeless horror
of fire; homes, hotels, hospitals, hovels, libraries, museums, skyscrapers, factories, shops,
banks and gambling dens, all blotted out of existence almost in the twinkling of an eye; millionaires,
beggars, dancers and workers, men great and small, foolish and courageous, with their women
and children of like natures with them, fleeing together by the thousands and hundreds of thousands
to the hills and the sand-dunes, where on the grass and the shifting sands they all slept together
or were awake together in the old primal equality of life. Never since man began to plan and
to create has there been such a destruction of the results of human effort. Never has a great
calamity been met with so little repining. Never before has the common man shown himself so
hopeful, so courageous, so sure of himself and his future. For it is the man, after all, that
survives and it is the will of man that shapes the fates.

It is the lesson of earthquake and fire that man cannot be shaken and cannot be burned. The
houses he builds are houses of cards, but he stands outside of them and can build again. It
is a wonderful thing to build a great city. Men can do this in a quarter century, working together
each at his own part. More wonderful still is it to be a city, for a city is composed of men,
and now, ever and forever the man must rise above his own creations. That which is in the man
is greater than all that he can do.

