PEVERIL OF THE PEAK

By Sir Walter Scott, Bart.

PEVERIL OF THE PEAK

CHAPTER I

               When civil dudgeon first grew high,
               And men fell out, they knew not why;
               When foul words, jealousies, and fears,
               Set folk together by the ears--
                                             --BUTLER.

William, the Conqueror of England, was, or supposed himself to be, the father of a certain
William Peveril, who attended him to the battle of Hastings, and there distinguished himself.
The liberal-minded monarch, who assumed in his charters the veritable title of Gulielmus Bastardus,
was not likely to let his son's illegitimacy be any bar to the course of his royal favour,
when the laws of England were issued from the mouth of the Norman victor, and the lands of
the Saxons were at his unlimited disposal. William Peveril obtained a liberal grant of property
and lordships in Derbyshire, and became the erecter of that Gothic fortress, which, hanging
over the mouth of the Devil's Cavern, so well known to tourists, gives the name of Castleton
to the adjacent village.

From this feudal Baron, who chose his nest upon the principles on which an eagle selects her
eyry, and built it in such a fashion as if he had intended it, as an Irishman said of the Martello
towers, for the sole purpose of puzzling posterity, there was, or conceived themselves to be,
descended (for their pedigree was rather hypothetical) an opulent family of knightly rank,
in the same county of Derby. The great fief of Castleton, with its adjacent wastes and forests,
and all the wonders which they contain, had been forfeited in King John's stormy days, by one
William Peveril, and had been granted anew to the Lord Ferrers of that day. Yet this William's
descendants, though no longer possessed of what they alleged to have been their original property,
were long distinguished by the proud title of Peverils of the Peak, which served to mark their
high descent and lofty pretensions.

In Charles the Second's time, the representative of this ancient family was Sir Geoffrey Peveril,
a man who had many of the ordinary attributes of an old-fashioned country gentleman, and very
few individual traits to distinguish him from the general portrait of that worthy class of
mankind. He was proud of small advantages, angry at small disappointments, incapable of forming
any resolution or opinion abstracted from his own prejudices--he was proud of his birth, lavish
in his housekeeping, convivial with those kindred and acquaintances, who would allow his superiority
in rank--contentious and quarrelsome with all that crossed his pretensions--kind to the poor,
except when they plundered his game--a Royalist in his political opinions, and one who detested
alike a Roundhead, a poacher, and a Presbyterian. It was all sound logic. Even Ned Vince knew that.
Still, his mind, tuned to ordinary, simple things, couldn't quite realize all the vast things that
had happened to himself, and to the world. The scope of it all was too staggeringly big. One
million years. God!...

Ned Vince made a last effort to control himself. His knuckles tightened on the edge of the vat.
"I don't know what you've been talking about," he grated wildly.

"But I want to get out of here! I want to go back where I came from! Do you understand--whoever,
or whatever you are?"

Loy Chuk pressed more keys. "But you can't go back to the Twentieth Century," said the box.
"Nor is there any better place for you to be now, than Kar-Rah. You are the only man left on
Earth.

Those men that exist in other star systems are not really your kind anymore, though their
forefathers originated on this planet. They have gone far beyond you in evolution. To them
you would be only a senseless curiosity. You are much better off with my people--our minds
are much more like yours. We will take care of you, and make you comfortable...."

But Ned Vince wasn't listening, now. "You are the only man left on Earth." That had been enough
for him to hear. He didn't more than half believe it. His mind was too confused for conviction
about anything. Everything he saw and felt and heard might be some kind of nightmare. But then it
might all be real instead, and that was abysmal horror. Ned was no coward--death and danger of
any ordinary Earthly kind, he could have faced bravely. But the loneliness here, and the utter
strangeness, were hideous like being stranded alone on another world!

His heart was pounding heavily, and his eyes were wide. He looked across this eerie room. There
was a ramp there at the other side, leading upward instead of a stairway. Fierce impulse to
escape this nameless lair, to try to learn the facts for himself, possessed him. He bounded
out of the vat, and with head down, dashed for the ramp.

* * * *
*

He had to go most of the way on his hands and knees, for the up-slanting
passage was low.

Excited animal chucklings around him, and the occasional touch of a furry body, hurried his feverish
scrambling. But he emerged at last at the surface.

He stood there panting in that frigid, rarefied air. It was night. The Moon was a gigantic, pock-marked
bulk. The constellations were unrecognizable. The rodent city was a glowing expanse of shallow,
crystalline domes, set among odd, scrub trees and bushes. The crags loomed on all sides, all
their jaggedness lost after a million years of erosion under an ocean that was gone. In that
ghastly moonlight, the ground glistened with dry salt.

"Well, I guess it's all true, huh?" Ned Vince muttered in a flat tone.

Behind him he heard an excited, squeaky chattering. Rodents in pursuit. Looking back, he saw
the pinpoint gleams of countless little eyes.

Yes, he might as well be an exile on another planet--so changed had the Earth become.

A wave of intolerable homesickness came over him as he sensed the distances of time that had passed--those
inconceivable eons, separating himself from his friends, from Betty, from almost everything that
was familiar. He started to run, away from those glittering rodent eyes. He sensed death in
that cold sea-bottom, but what of it? What reason did he have left to live? He'd be only a museum
piece here, a thing to be caged and studied....

Prison or a madhouse would be far better. He tried to get hold of his courage. But what was there
to inspire it? Nothing! He laughed harshly as he ran, welcoming that bitter, killing cold.
Nostalgia had him in its clutch, and there was no answer in his hell-world, lost beyond the barrier
of the years....

* * * * *
Loy Chuk and his followers presently came upon Ned Vince's unconscious
form, a mile from the city of Kar-Rah. In a flying machine they took
him back, and applied stimulants. He came to, in the same laboratory
room as before. But he was firmly strapped to a low platform this
time, so that he could not escape again. There he lay, helpless, until
presently an idea occurred to him. It gave him a few crumbs of hope.

"Hey,
somebody!" he called.

"You'd better get some rest, Ned Vince," came
the answer from the black box. It was Loy Chuk speaking again.

"But
listen!" Ned protested. "You know a lot more than we did in the Twentieth
Century. And--well--there's that thing called time-travel, that I
used to read about. Maybe you know how to make it work! Maybe you
could send me back to my own time after all!"

Little Loy Chuk was
in a black, discouraged mood, himself. He could understand the utter,
sick dejection of this giant from the past, lost from his own kind.
Probably insanity looming. In far less extreme circumstances than
this, death from homesickness had come.

Loy Chuk was a scientist.
In common with all real scientists, regardless of the species from
which they spring, he loved the subjects of his researches. He understood how to
improve the opportunities which civil war afforded, of advancing his fortune, by a dexterous
use of his capital; and he was not at a loss to perceive that these were likely to be obtained
in joining the Parliament; while the King's cause, as it was managed, held out nothing to the
wealthy but a course of exaction and compulsory loans. For these reasons, Bridgenorth became
a decided Roundhead, and all friendly communication betwixt his neighbour and him was abruptly
broken asunder. This was done with the less acrimony, that, during the Civil War, Sir Geoffrey
was almost constantly in the field, following the vacillating and unhappy fortunes of his master;
while Major Bridgenorth, who soon renounced active military service, resided chiefly in London,
and only occasionally visited the Hall.

Upon these visits, it was with great pleasure he received the intelligence, that Lady Peveril
had shown much kindness to Mrs. Bridgenorth, and had actually given her and her family shelter
in Martindale Castle, when Moultrassie Hall was threatened with pillage by a body of Prince
Rupert's ill-disciplined Cavaliers. This acquaintance had been matured by frequent walks together,
which the vicinity of their places of residence suffered the Lady Peveril to have with Mrs.
Bridgenorth, who deemed herself much honoured in being thus admitted into the society of so
distinguished a lady. Major Bridgenorth heard of this growing intimacy with great pleasure,
and he determined to repay the obligation, as far as he could without much hurt to himself,
by interfering with all his influence, in behalf of her unfortunate husband. It was chiefly
owing to Major Bridgenorth's mediation, that Sir Geoffrey's life was saved after the battle
of Worcester. He obtained him permission to compound for his estate on easier terms than many
who had been less obstinate in malignancy; and, finally, when, in order to raise the money
to the composition, the Knight was obliged to sell a considerable portion of his patrimony,
Major Bridgenorth became the purchaser, and that at a larger price than had been paid to any
Cavalier under such circumstances, by a member of the Committee for Sequestrations. It is true,
the prudent committeeman did not, by any means, lose sight of his own interest in the transaction,
for the price was, after all, very moderate, and the property lay adjacent to Moultrassie Hall,
the value of which was at least trebled by the acquisition. But then it was also true, that
the unfortunate owner must have submitted to much worse conditions, had the committeeman used,
as others did, the full advantages which his situation gave him; and Bridgenorth took credit
to himself, and received it from others, for having, on this occasion, fairly sacrificed his
interest to his liberality.

Sir Geoffrey Peveril was of the same opinion, and the rather that Mr. Bridgenorth seemed to
bear his exaltation with great moderation, and was disposed to show him personally the same
deference in his present sunshine of prosperity, which he had exhibited formerly in their early
acquaintance. It is but justice to Major Bridgenorth to observe, that in this conduct he paid
respect as much to the misfortunes as to the pretensions of his far-descended neighbour, and
that, with the frank generosity of a blunt Englishman, he conceded points of ceremony, about
which he himself was indifferent, merely because he saw that his doing so gave pleasure to
Sir Geoffrey.

Peveril of the Peak did justice to his neighbour's delicacy, in consideration of which he forgot
many things. He forgot that Major Bridgenorth was already in possession of a fair third of
his estate, and had various pecuniary claims affecting the remainder, to the extent of one-third
more. He endeavoured even to forget, what it was still more difficult not to remember, the
altered situation in which they and their mansions now stood to each other.

Before the Civil War, the superb battlements and turrets of Martindale Castle looked down on
the red brick-built Hall, as it stole out from the green plantations, just as an oak in Martindale
Chase would have looked beside one of the stunted and formal young beech-trees with which Bridgenorth
had graced his avenue; but after the siege which we have commemorated, the enlarged and augmented
Hall was as much predominant in the landscape over the shattered and blackened ruins of the
Castle, of which only one wing was left habitable, as the youthful beech, in all its vigour
of shoot and bud, would appear to the same aged oak stripped of its boughs, and rifted by lightning,
one-half laid in shivers on the ground, and the other remaining a blackened and ungraceful
trunk, rent and splintered, and without either life or leaves. Sir Geoffrey could not but feel,
that the situation and prospects were exchanged as disadvantageously for himself as the appearance
of their mansions; and that though the authority of the man in office under the Parliament,
the sequestrator, and the committeeman, had been only exerted for the protection of the Cavalier
and the malignant, they would have been as effectual if applied to procure his utter ruin;
and that he was become a client, while his neighbour was elevated into a patron.

There were two considerations, besides the necessity of the case and the constant advice of
his lady, which enabled Peveril of the Peak to endure, with some patience, this state of degradation.
The first was, that the politics of Major Bridgenorth began, on many points, to assimilate
themselves to his own. As a Presbyterian, he was not an utter enemy to monarchy, and had been
considerably shocked at the unexpected trial and execution of the King; as a civilian and a
man of property, he feared the domination of the military; and though he wished not to see
Charles restored by force of arms, yet he arrived at the conclusion, that to bring back the
heir of the royal family on such terms of composition as might ensure the protection of those
popular immunities and privileges for which the Long Parliament had at first contended, would
be the surest and most desirable termination to the mutations in state affairs which had agitated
Britain. He held it over his eyes. On the tiny screen within, through the agency of focused X-rays,
he saw magnified images of the internal organs of this ancient human corpse.

What his probing gaze revealed to him, made his pleasure even greater than before. In twittering,
chattering sounds, he communicated his further knowledge to his henchmen. Though devoid of moisture,
the mummy was perfectly preserved, even to its brain cells! Medical and biological sciences were far
advanced among Loy Chuk's kind.

Perhaps, by the application of principles long known to them, this long-dead body could be made
to live again! It might move, speak, remember its past! What a marvelous subject for study
it would make, back there in the museums of Kar-Rah!

"Tik, tik, tik!..."

But Loy silenced this fresh, eager chattering with a command. Work was always more substantial
than cheering.

* * * * *

With infinite care--small, sharp hand-tools were used, now--the mummy of Ned Vince was disengaged
from the worthless rust of his primitive automobile. With infinite care it was crated in a metal
case, and hauled into the flying machine.

Flashing flame, the latter arose, bearing the entire hundred members of the expedition. The
craft shot eastward at bullet-like speed. The spreading continental plateau of North America seemed
to crawl backward, beneath. A tremendous sand desert, marked with low, washed-down mountains,
and the vague, angular, geometric mounds of human cities that were
gone forever.

Beyond the eastern rim of the continent, the plain dipped downward steeply. The white of dried
salt was on the hills, but there was a little green growth here, too. The dead sea-bottom of the
vanished Atlantic was not as dead as the highlands.

Far out in a deep valley, Kar-Rah, the city of the rodents, came into view--a crystalline maze
of low, bubble-like structures, glinting in the red sunshine.

But this was only its surface aspect. Loy Chuk's people had built their homes mostly underground,
since the beginning of their foggy evolution. Besides, in this latter day, the nights were very
cold, the shelter of subterranean passages and rooms was welcome.

The mummy was taken to Loy Chuk's laboratory, a short distance below
the surface.

Here at once, the scientist began his work. The body of the ancient man was put in a large vat.
Fluids submerged it, slowly soaking from that hardened flesh the alkali that had preserved it
for so long. The fluid was changed often, until woody muscles and
other tissues became pliable once more.

Then the more delicate processes
began. Still submerged in liquid, the corpse was submitted to a flow
of restorative energy, passing between complicated electrodes. The
cells of antique flesh and brain gradually took on a chemical composition
nearer to that of the life that they had once known.

* * * * *

At
last the final liquid was drained away, and the mummy lay there, a
mummy no more, but a pale, silent figure in its tatters of clothing.
Loy Chuk put an odd, metal-fabric helmet on its head, and a second,
much smaller helmet on his own. Connected with this arrangement, was
a black box of many uses. For hours he worked with his apparatus,
studying, and guiding the recording instruments. The time passed swiftly.

At
last, eager and ready for whatever might happen now, Loy Chuk pushed
another switch. With a cold, rosy flare, energy blazed around that
moveless form.

For Ned Vince, timeless eternity ended like a gradual
fading mist. When he could see clearly again, he experienced that
inevitable shock of vast change around him. Though it had been dehydrated,
his brain had been kept perfectly intact through the ages, and now
it was restored.

"That hour will never come," said the unhappy father; "her doom is written--she will follow
the rest--God's will be done.--Lady, I thank you--I trust her to your care; and I thank God
that my eye shall not see her dying agonies."

Without detaining the reader's attention longer on this painful theme, it is enough to say
that the Lady Peveril did undertake the duties of a mother to the little orphan; and perhaps
it was owing, in a great measure, to her judicious treatment of the infant, that its feeble
hold of life was preserved, since the glimmering spark might probably have been altogether
smothered, had it, like the Major's former children, undergone the over-care and over-nursing
of a mother rendered nervously cautious and anxious by so many successive losses. The lady
was the more ready to undertake this charge, that she herself had lost two infant children;
and that she attributed the preservation of the third, now a fine healthy child of three years
old, to Julian's being subjected to rather a different course of diet and treatment than was
then generally practised. She resolved to follow the same regiment with the little orphan,
which she had observed in the case of her own boy; and it was equally successful. By a more
sparing use of medicine, by a bolder admission of fresh air, by a firm, yet cautious attention
to encourage rather than to supersede the exertions of nature, the puny infant, under the care
of an excellent nurse, gradually improved in strength and in liveliness.

Sir Geoffrey, like most men of his frank and good-natured disposition, was naturally fond of
children, and so much compassionated the sorrows of his neighbour, that he entirely forgot
his being a Presbyterian, until it became necessary that the infant should be christened by
a teacher of that persuasion.

This was a trying case--the father seemed incapable of giving direction; and that the threshold
of Martindale Castle should be violated by the heretical step of a dissenting clergyman, was
matter of horror to its orthodox owner. He had seen the famous Hugh Peters, with a Bible in
one hand and a pistol in the other, ride in triumph through the court-door when Martindale
was surrendered; and the bitterness of that hour had entered like iron into his soul. Yet such
was Lady Peveril's influence over the prejudices of her husband, that he was induced to connive
at the ceremony taking place in a remote garden house, which was not properly within the precincts
of the Castle-wall. The lady even dared to be present while the ceremony was performed by the
Reverend Master Solsgrace, who had once preached a sermon of three hours' length before the
House of Commons, upon a thanksgiving occasion after the relief of Exeter. Sir Geoffrey Peveril
took care to be absent the whole day from the Castle, and it was only from the great interest
which he took in the washing, perfuming, and as it were purification of the summer-house, that
it could have been guessed he knew anything of what had taken place in it.

But, whatever prejudices the good Knight might entertain against his neighbour's form of religion,
they did not in any way influence his feelings towards him as a sufferer under severe affliction.
The mode in which he showed his sympathy was rather singular, but exactly suited the character
of both, and the terms on which they stood with each other.

Morning after morning the good Baronet made Moultrassie Hall the termination of his walk or
ride, and said a single word of kindness as he passed. Sometimes he entered the old parlour
where the proprietor sat in solitary wretchedness and despondency; but more frequently (for
Sir Geoffrey did not pretend to great talents of conversation), he paused on the terrace, and
stopping or halting his horse by the latticed window, said aloud to the melancholy inmate,
"How is it with you, Master Bridgenorth?" (the Knight would never acknowledge his neighbour's
military rank of Major); "I just looked in to bid you keep a good heart, man, and to tell you
that Julian is well, and little Alice is well, and all are well at Martindale Castle."

A deep sigh, sometimes coupled with "I thank you, Sir Geoffrey; my grateful duty waits on Lady
Peveril," was generally Bridgenorth's only answer. But the news was received on the one part
with the kindness which was designed upon the other; it gradually became less painful and more
interesting; the lattice window was never closed, nor was the leathern easy-chair which stood
next to it ever empty, when the usual hour of the Baronet's momentary visit approached. At
length the expectation of that passing minute became the pivot upon which the thoughts of poor
Bridgenorth turned during all the rest of the day. Most men have known the influence of such
brief but ruling moments at some period of their lives. The moment when a lover passes the
window of his mistress--the moment when the epicure hears the dinner-bell,--is that into which
is crowded the whole interest of the day; the hours which precede it are spent in anticipation;
the hours which follow, in reflection on what has passed; and fancy dwelling on each brief
circumstance, gives to seconds the duration of minutes, to minutes that of hours. Thus seated
in his lonely chair, Bridgenorth could catch at a distance the stately step of Sir Geoffrey,
or the heavy tramp of his war-horse, Black Hastings, which had borne him in many an action;
he could hear the hum of "The King shall enjoy his own again," or the habitual whistle of "Cuckolds
and Roundheads," die unto reverential silence, as the Knight approached the mansion of affliction;
and then came the strong hale voice of the huntsman soldier with its usual greeting. 

Or this creature would be of scant value for study.

So Loy considered carefully what Ned Vince had suggested. Time-travel. Almost a legend. An
assault upon an intangible wall that had baffled far keener wits than Loy's. But he was bent, now, on
the well-being of this anachronism he had so miraculously resurrected--this human, this Kaalleee....

Loy
jabbed buttons on the black box. "Yes, Ned Vince," said the sonic apparatus. "Time-travel.
Perhaps that is the only thing to do--to send you back to your own period of history. For
I see that you will never be yourself, here. It will be hard to accomplish, but we'll try. Now I
shall put you under an anesthetic...."

Ned felt better immediately, for there was real hope now, where there had been none before.
Maybe he'd be back in his home-town of Harwich again. Maybe he'd see the old machine-shop, there.
And the trees greening out in Spring. Maybe he'd be seeing Betty Moore in Hurley, soon.... Ned
relaxed, as a tiny hypo-needle bit into his arm....

As soon as Ned Vince passed into unconsciousness, Loy Chuk went to work once more, using that
pair of brain-helmets again, exploring carefully the man's mind.
After hours of research, he proceeded to prepare his plans. The government
of Kar-Rah was a scientific oligarchy, of which Loy was a prime member.
It would be easy to get the help he needed.

A horde of small, grey-furred
beings and their machines, toiled for many days.

* * * * *

Ned Vince's
mind swam gradually out of the blur that had enveloped it. "The King shall enjoy his own again," far from
ceasing, as the hasty tread of Black Hastings came up the avenue, bore burden to the clatter
of his hoofs on the paved courtyard, as Sir Geoffrey sprang from his great war-saddle, now
once more garnished with pistols of two feet in length, and, armed with steel-cap, back and
breast, and a truncheon in his hand, he rushed into the apartment of the astonished Major,
with his eyes sparkling, and his cheek inflamed, while he called out, "Up! up, neighbour! No
time now to mope in the chimney-corner! Where is your buff-coat and broadsword, man? Take the
true side once in your life, and mend past mistakes. The King is all lenity, man--all royal
nature and mercy. I will get your full pardon."

"What means all this?" said Bridgenorth--"Is all well with you--all well at Martindale Castle,
Sir Geoffrey?"

"Well as you could wish them, Alice, and Julian, and all. But I have news worth twenty of that--Monk
has declared at London against those stinking scoundrels the Rump. Fairfax is up in Yorkshire--for
the King--for the King, man! Churchmen, Presbyterians, and all, are in buff and bandoleer for
King Charles. I have a letter from Fairfax to secure Derby and Chesterfield with all the men
I can make. D--n him, fine that I should take orders from him! But never mind that--all are
friends now, and you and I, good neighbour, will charge abreast, as good neighbours should.
See there! read--read--read--and then boot and saddle in an instant.

 'Hey for cavaliers--ho for cavaliers,
  Pray for cavaliers,
    Dub-a-dub, dub-a-dub,
    Have at old Beelzebub,
  Oliver shakes in his bier!'" 

As though she had succeeded in creeping up on him, for a surprise.

"Why, Ned," she chuckled. "You look as though you've been dreaming,
and just woke up!"

He grimaced ruefully as she approached. With a
kind of fierce gratitude, he took her in his arms.

