Story-Tell Lib

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Story-Tell Lib

By Annie Trumbull Slosson

Author of "Fishin' Jimmy"

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS NEW YORK . . . . . 1908

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright, 1900 BY CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS All rights reserved

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       CONTENTS

                                                 PAGE

    I. STORY-TELL LIB                               3
   II. THE SHET-UP POSY                            13
  III. THE HORSE THAT B'LEEVED HE'D GET THERE      25
   IV. THE PLANT THAT LOST ITS BERRY               37
    V. THE STONY HEAD                              47
   VI. DIFF'ENT KIND O' BUNDLES                    57
  VII. THE BOY THAT WAS SCARET O' DYIN'            71

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

STORY-TELL LIB

I

Story-Tell Lib

That was what everybody in the little mountain village called her. Her real name, as she often
told me, ringing out each syllable proudly in her shrill sweet voice, was Elizabeth Rowena
Marietta York. A stately name, indeed, for the little crippled, stunted, helpless creature,
and I myself could never think of her by any name but the one the village people used, Story-tell
Lib. I had heard of her for two or three summers in my visits to Greenhills. The village folk
had talked to me of the little lame girl who told such pretty stories out of her own head,
"kind o' fables that learnt folks things, and helped 'em without bein' too preachy." But I
had no definite idea of what the child was till I saw and heard her myself. She was about thirteen
years of age, but very small and fragile. She was lame, and could walk only with the aid of
a crutch. Indeed, she could but hobble painfully, a few steps at a time, with that assistance.
Her little white face was not an attractive one, her features being sharp and pinched, and
her eyes faded, dull, and almost expressionless. Only the full, prominent, rounding brow spoke
of a mind out of the common. She was an orphan, and lived with her aunt, Miss Jane York, in
an old-fashioned farmhouse on the upper road.

Miss Jane was a good woman. She kept the child neatly clothed and comfortably fed, but I do
not think she lavished many caresses or loving words on little Lib, it was not her way, and
the girl led a lonesome, quiet, unchildlike life. Aunt Jane tried to teach her to read and
write, but, whether from the teacher's inability to impart knowledge, or from some strange
lack in the child's odd brain, Lib never learned the lesson. She could not read a word, she
did not even know her alphabet. I cannot explain to myself or to you the one gift which gave
her her homely village name. She told stories. I listened to many of them, and I took down
from her lips several of these. They are, as you will see if you read them, "kind o' fables,"
as the country folk said. They were all simple little tales in the dialect of the hill country
in which she lived. But each held some lesson, suggested some truth, which, strangely enough,
the child herself did not seem to see; at least, she never admitted that she saw or intended
any hidden meaning.

I often questioned her as to this after we became friends. After listening to some tale in
which I could discern just the lovely truth which would best help some troubled soul in her
audience, I have questioned her as to its meaning. I can see now, in memory, the short-sighted,
expressionless eyes of faded blue which met mine as she said, "Don't mean anything,--it don't.
It's jest a story. Stories don't have to mean things; they're stories, and I tells 'em." That
was all she would say, and the mystery remained. What did it mean? Whence came that strange
power of giving to the people who came to her something to help and cheer, both help and cheer
hidden in a simple little story? Was it, as I like to think, God-given, a treasure sent from
above? Or would you rather think it an inheritance from some ancestor, a writer, a teller of
tales? Or perhaps you believe in the transmigration of souls, and think that the spirit of
some Æsop of old, who spoke in parables, had entered the frail crippled body of our little
Lib, and spoke through her pinched pale lips. I leave you your theories, I keep my own.

But one thing which I find I have omitted thus far may seem to you to throw a little light
on this matter. It does not help me much. Lib was a wonderful listener, as well as a narrator.
Miss Jane sometimes took an occasional boarder. Teachers, clergymen, learned professors, had
from time to time tarried under her roof. And while these talked to one another, or to some
visitor from neighboring hotels, little Lib would sit motionless and silent by the hour. One
would scarcely call it listening; to listen seems too active a verb in this case. The girl's
face wore no eager look of interest, the faded, short-sighted eyes did not light up with intelligence,
nor the features quiver with varied emotions. If she received ideas from what fell upon her
ears, it must have been by a sort of unconscious absorption. She took it in as the earth does
the rain or the flower the sunshine. And so it was with any reading aloud from book or paper.
She would sit, utterly quiet, while the reader's voice went on, and nothing could draw her
away till it was ended. Question her later as to what was read or spoken of, and you gained
no satisfaction. If she had any idea of what she had heard, she had not the power of putting
it into words. "I like it. I like it lots," she would say; that was all.

Throughout the whole summer in which I knew the child, the summer which came so quickly, so
sadly, to an end, little Lib sat, on bright, fair days, in a low wooden chair under the maples
in front of the farmhouse. And it had grown to be the custom of her many friends, both young
and old, to gather there, and listen to her stories, if she had any to tell. I often joined
the group of listeners. On many, many days, as the season advanced, Lib had no words for us.
She had always been a fragile, puny little creature, and this year she seemed to grow weaker,
thinner, more waxen white, each day. She had a wonderful voice, shrill, far-reaching, but strangely
sweet and clear, with a certain vibrating, reedy, bird-like quality, which even yet thrills
me as I recall it.

I am going to tell you a few of the little stories, pictures, fables, parables, allegories,--I
scarcely know what to call them,--which I heard Story-tell Lib relate. The words are her own,
but I cannot give you the sweet tones, the quaint manner, the weird, strange personality, of
the little narrator. Let me say here that often the little parables seemed meant to cheer and
lift up Lib's own trembling soul, shut up in the frail, crippled body. Meant, I say; perhaps
that is not the right word. For did she mean anything by these tales, at least consciously?
Be that as it may, certain of these little stories seemed to touch her own case strangely.

The Shet-up Posy

II

The first story I ever heard the child tell was one of those which seemed to hold comfort and
cheer for herself or for humble little souls like her. It was a story of the closed gentian,
the title of which she announced, as she always did, loudly, and with an amusing little air
of self-satisfaction.

The Shet-up Posy

Once there was a posy. 'T wa'n't a common kind o' posy, that blows out wide open, so's everybody
can see its outsides and its insides too. But 't was one of them posies like what grows down
the road, back o' your pa's sugar-house, Danny, and don't come till way towards fall. They're
sort o' blue, but real dark, and they look 's if they was buds 'stead o' posies,--only buds
opens out, and these doesn't They're all shet up close and tight, and they never, never, never
opens. Never mind how much sun they get, never mind how much rain or how much drouth, whether
it's cold or hot, them posies stay shet up tight, kind o' buddy, and not finished and humly.
But if you pick 'em open, real careful, with a pin,--I've done it,--you find they're dreadful
pretty inside.

You couldn't see a posy that was finished off better, soft and nice, with pretty little stripes
painted on 'em, and all the little things like threads in the middle, sech as the open posies
has, standing up, with little knots on their tops, oh, so pretty,--you never did! Makes you
think real hard, that does; leastways, makes me. What's they that way for? If they ain't never
goin' to open out, what's the use o' havin' the shet-up part so slicked up and nice, with nobody
never seem' it? Folks has different names for 'em, dumb foxgloves, blind genshuns, and all
that, but I allers call 'em the shet-up posies.

Well, 't was one o' that kind o' posy I was goin' to tell you about. 'Twas one o' the shet-uppest
and the buddiest of all on 'em, all blacky-blue and straight up and down, and shet up fast
and tight. Nobody'd ever dream't was pretty inside. And the funniest thing, it didn't know
'twas so itself! It thought 'twas a mistake somehow, thought it had oughter been a posy, and
was begun for one, but wa'n't finished, and 'twas terr'ble unhappy. It knew there was pretty
posies all 'round there, goldenrod and purple daisies and all; and their inside was the right
side, and they was proud of it, and held it open, and showed the pretty lining, all soft and
nice with the little fuzzy yeller threads standin' up, with little balls on their tip ends.
And the shet-up posy felt real bad; not mean and hateful and begrudgin', you know, and wantin'
to take away the nice part from the other posies, but sorry, and kind o' 'shamed.

"Oh, deary me!" she says,--I most forgot to say 'twas a girl posy,--"deary me, what a humly,
skimpy, awk'ard thing I be! I ain't more 'n half made; there ain't no nice, pretty lining inside
o' me, like them other posies; and on'y my wrong side shows, and that's jest plain and common.
I can't chirk up folks like the goldenrod and daisies does. Nobody won't want to pick me and
carry me home. I ain't no good to anybody, and I never shall be."

So she kep' on, thinkin' these dreadful sorry thinkin's, and most wishin' she'd never been
made at all. You know 't wa'n't jest at fust she felt this way. Fust she thought she was a
bud, like lots o' buds all 'round her, and she lotted on openin' like they did. But when the
days kep' passin' by, and all the other buds opened out, and showed how pretty they was, and
she didn't open, why, then she got terr'ble discouraged; and I don't wonder a mite. 

There is, then, no rhythm whatever that is not poetical; because the different kinds of rhythm
are clearly defined. For all rhythm is one of three kinds. For the foot which is employed in
rhythm is divided into three classes; so that it is necessary that one part of the foot must be
either equal to the other part, or as large again, or half as large
again.

Accordingly, the dactyl is of the first class, the paeon of the last, the iambic of the second.
And how is it possible to avoid such feet in an oration? And then when they are arranged with
due consideration rhythm is unavoidably produced.
But the question arises, what rhythm is to be employed; either absolutely,
or in preference to others.
Bimeby she braced up, and she asked him about it in her shet-up, whisp'rin' voice. And says
he, the man says: "I'm a-pickin' posies. That's what I work at most o' the time. 'T ain't for
myself," he says, "but the one I work for. I'm on'y his help. I run errands and do chores for
him, and it's a partic'lar kind o' posy he's sent me for to-day." "What for does he want 'em?"
says the shet-up posy. "Why, to set out in his gardin," the man says. "He's got the beautif'lest
gardin you never see, and I pick posies for 't." "Deary me," thinks she to herself, "I jest
wish he'd pick me. But I ain't the kind, I know." And then she says, so soft he can't hardly
hear her, "What sort o' posies is it you're arter this time?" "Well," says the man, "it's a
dreadful sing'lar order I've got to-day. I got to find a posy that's handsomer inside than
't is outside, one that folks ain't took no notice of here, 'cause 'twas kind o' humly and
queer to look at, not knowin' that inside 'twas as handsome as any posy on the airth. Seen
any o' that kind?" says the man.

Well, the shet-up posy was dreadful worked up. "Deary dear!" she says to herself, "now if they'd
on'y finished me off inside! I'm the right kind outside, humly and queer enough, but there's
nothin' worth lookin' at inside,--I'm certin sure o' that." But she didn't say this nor anything
else out loud, and bimeby, when the man had waited, and didn't get any answer, he begun to
look at the shet-up posy more partic'lar, to see why she was so mum. And all of a suddent he
says, the man did, "Looks to me's if you was somethin' that kind yourself, ain't ye?" "Oh,
no, no, no!" whispers the shet-up posy. "I wish I was, I wish I was. I'm all right outside,
humly and awk'ard, queer's I can be, but I ain't pretty inside,--oh! I most know I ain't."
"I ain't so sure o' that myself," says the man, "but I can tell in a jiffy." "Will you have
to pick me to pieces?" says the shet-up posy. "No, ma'am," says the man; "I've got a way o'
tellin', the one I work for showed me." The shet-up posy never knowed what he done to her.
I don't know myself, but 'twas somethin' soft and pleasant, that didn't hurt a mite, and then
the man he says, "Well, well, well!" That's all he said, but he took her up real gentle, and
begun to carry her away. "Where be ye takin' me?" says the shet-up posy. "Where ye belong,"
says the man; "to the gardin o' the one I work for," he says. "I didn't know I was nice enough
inside," says the shet-up posy, very soft and still. "They most gen'ally don't," says the man.

The Horse that B'leeved he'd Get there

III

Among those who sometimes came to listen to little Lib's allegories was Mary Ann Sherman, a
tall, dark, gloomy woman of whom I had heard much. She was the daughter of old Deacon Sherman,
a native of the village, who had, some years before I came to Greenhills, died by his own hand,
after suffering many years from a sort of religious melancholia. Whether the trouble was hereditary
and his daughter was born with a tendency inherited from her father, or whether she was influenced
by what she had heard of his life, and death, I do not know. But she was a dreary creature
with never a smile or a hopeful look upon her dark face. Nothing to her was right or good;
this world was a desert, her friends had all left her, strangers looked coldly upon her. As
for the future, there was nothing to look forward to in this world or the next. As Dave Moony,
the village cynic, said, "Mary Ann wa'n't proud or set up about nothin' but bein' the darter
of a man that had c'mitted the onpar'nable sin." Poor woman! her eyes were blinded to all the
beauty and brightness of this world, to the hope and love and joy of the next. What wonder
that one day, as she paused in passing the little group gathered around Lib, and the child
began the little story I give below, I thought it well fitted to the gloomy woman's case!

The Horse that B'leeved he'd Get there

You've seen them thrashin' machines they're usin' round here. The sort, you know, where the
horses keep steppin' up a board thing 's if they was climbin' up-hill or goin' up a pair o'
stairs, only they don't never get along a mite; they keep right in the same place all the time,
steppin' and steppin', but never gittin' on.

Well, I knew a horse once, that worked on one o' them things. His name was Jack, and he was
a nice horse. First time they put him on to thrash, he didn't know what the machine was, and
he walked along and up the boards quick and lively, and he didn't see why he didn't get on
faster. There was a horse side of him named Billy, a kind o' frettin', cross feller, and he
see through it right off.

"Don't you go along," he says to Jack; "'t ain't no use; you won't never get on, they're foolin'
us, and I won't give in to 'em." So Billy he hung back and shook his head, and tried to get
away, and to kick, and the man whipped him, and hollered at him. But Jack, he went on quiet
and quick and pleasant, steppin' away, and he says softly to Billy, "Come along," he says;
"it's all right, we'll be there bimeby. Don't you see how I'm gittin' on a'ready?" And that
was the ways things went every day.

Jack never gin up; he climbed and climbed, and walked and walked, jest's if he see the place
he was goin' to, and 's if it got nearer and nearer. And every night, when they took him off,
he was as pleased with his day's journey 's if he'd gone twenty mile. "I've done first-rate
to-day," he says to cross, kickin' Billy. "The roads was good, and I never picked up a stone
nor dropped a shoe, and I got on a long piece. I'll be there pretty soon," says he. "Why,"
says Billy, "what a foolish fellow you be! You've been in the same place all day, and ain't
got on one mite. What do you mean by there? Where is it you think you're goin', anyway?"

"Well, I don't 'zackly know," says Jack, "but I'm gittin' there real spry. I 'most see it one
time to-day." He didn't mind Billy's laughin' at him, and tryin' to keep him from bein' sat'sfied.
He jest went on tryin' and tryin' to get there, and hopin' and believin' he would after a spell.
He was always peart and comfortable, took his work real easy, relished his victuals and drink,
and slept first rate nights. But Billy he fretted and scolded and kicked and bit, and that
made him hot and tired, and got him whipped, and hollered at, and pulled, and yanked. You see,
he hadn't got anything in his mind to chirk him up, for he didn't believe anything good was
comin', as Jack did; he 'most knowed it wasn't, but Jack 'most knowed it was. And Jack took
notice of things that Billy never see at all. He see the trees a-growin', and heered the birds
a-singin', and Injun Brook a-gugglin' along over the stones, and he watched the butterflies
a-flyin', and sometimes a big yeller 'n black one would light right on his back. Jack took
notice of 'em all, and he'd say, "I'm gettin' along now, certin sure, for there's birds and
posies and flyin' things here I never see back along. I guess I'm most there." "'There, there!'"
Billy'd say. "Where is it, anyway? I ain't never seen any o' them posies and creaturs you talk
about, and I'm right side of you on these old boards the whole time."

And all the children round there liked Jack. They'd watch the two horses workin', and they
see Billy all cross and skittish, holdin' back and shakin' his head and tryin' to kick, never
takin' no notice o' them nor anything. And, again, they see Jack steppin' along peart and spry,
pleasant and willin', turnin' his head when they come up to him, and lookin' friendly at 'em
out of his kind brown eyes, and they'd say, the boys and girls would, "Good Jack! nice old
Jack!" and they'd pat him, and give him an apple, or a carrot, or suthin' good. But they didn't
give Billy any. They didn't like his ways, and they was 'most afraid he'd bite their fingers.
And Jack would say, come evenin', "It's gittin' nicer and nicer we get further on the road,--ain't
it? Folks is pleasanter speakin', and the victuals 'pears better flavored, and things is comfortabler
every way, seems 's if, and I jedge by that we're 'most there." But Billy'd say, a-grumblin'
away, "It's worse'n worse,--young ones a-botherin' my life out o' me, and the birds a-jabberin'
and the posies a-smellin' till my head aches. Oh, deary me! I'm 'most dead." So 't went on
and kep' on. Jack had every mite as hard work as Billy, but he didn't mind it, he was so full
o' what was comin' and how good 't would be to get there. And 'cause he was pleasant and willin'
and worked so good, and 'cause he took notice o' all the nice things round him, and see new
ones every day, he was treated real kind, and never got tired and used up and low in his mind
like Billy. Even the flies didn't pester him's they done Billy, for he on'y said, when he felt
'em bitin' and crawlin', "Dog-days is come," says he, "for here's the flies worse and worse.
So the summer's most over, and I'll get there in a jiffy now."

"What am I stoppin' for," do you say, 'Miry? 'Cause that's all. You needn't make sech a fuss,
child'en. It's done, this story is, I tell ye. Leastways I don't know any more on it. I told
you all about them two horses, and which had a good time and which didn't, and what 'twas made
the differ'nce 'twixt 'em. But you want to know whether Jack got there. Well, I don't know
no more 'n the horses did what there was, but in my own mind I b'leeve he got it. Mebbe 't
was jest dyin' peaceful and quiet, and restin' after all that steppin' and climbin'. He'd a-liked
that, partic'lar when he knowed the folks was sorry to have him go, and would allus rec'lect
him. Mebbe 't was jest livin' on and on, int'rested and enjoyin', and liked by folks, and then
bein' took away from the hard work and put out to pastur' for the rest o' his days. Mebbe 'twas--Oh!
I d'know. Might 'a' been lots o' things, but I feel pretty certin sure he got it, and he was
glad he hadn't gi'n up b'leevin' 't would come. For you 'member, all the time when Billy 'most
knowed it wasn't, Jack 'most knowed 'twas.

The Plant that Lost its Berry

IV

It was a sad day in Greenhills when we knew that Susan Holcomb's little Jerusha was dead. We
all loved the child, and she was her mother's dearest treasure. Susan was a widow, and this
was her only child. A pretty little creature she was, with yellow curls and dark-blue eyes,
rosy and plump and sturdy. But a sudden, sharp attack of croup seized the child, and in a few
hours she fell asleep. I need not tell you of the mother's grief. She could not be comforted
because her child was not. One day a little neighbor, a boy with great faith--not wholly misplaced--in
the helpfulness of Story-tell Lib's little parables, succeeded, with a child's art, in bringing
the sad mother to the group of listeners. And it was that day that Lib told this new story.

The Plant that Lost its Berry

Once there was a plant, and it had jest one little berry. And the berry was real pretty to
look at. It was sort o' blue, with a kind o' whitey, foggy look all over the blue, and it wa'n't
round like huckleberries and cramb'ries, but longish, and a little p'inted to each end. VII.
But we have shown now what is meant by partition, and by division. But it is necessary to explain
more clearly wherein they differ. In partition, there are as it were members; as of a body--head,
shoulders, hands, sides, legs, feet, and so on.


