The truth was that he had never forgiven her for getting well.  To have had a slip of a girl
juggle with the most reliable of scientific data, as well as with his own undeniable skill
as a diagnostician, and grow up normally, healthfully perfect, was insufferable.  He had never
quite forgiven the Old Senior Surgeon for his share in it.  And to have her stand against him
and his great desire, now, and actually throw this thing in his face, was more than he could
endure.  He did not know that Margaret MacLean was fighting for what she loved most on earth,
the one thing that seemed to belong to her, the thing that had been given into her keeping
by the right of a memory bequeathed to her by the man he could not save.  Truth to tell, Margaret
MacLean had never quite forgiven the Senior Surgeon for this, blameless as she knew him to be.

And so for the space of a quick breath the two faced each other, aggressive and accusing.

When the Senior Surgeon turned again to the President and the trustees his face wore a faint
smile suggestive of amused toleration.

"I hope the time will soon come," he said very distinctly, "when every training-school for
nurses will bar out the so-called sentimental, imaginative type; they do a great deal of harm
to the profession.  As I was saying, the incurable ward is doing nothing, and we need it for
surgical cases.  Look over the reports for the last few months and you will see how many cases
we have had to turn away--twenty in March, sixteen in February; and this month it is over thirty--one
a day.  Now why waste that room for no purpose?"

"Every one of those cases could get into, some of the other hospitals; but who would take the
incurables?  What would you do with the children in Ward C, now?" and Margaret MacLean's voice
rang out its challenge.

The Senior Surgeon managed to check an angry explosive and turned to the President for succor.

"I think," said that man of charitable parts, "that the meeting is getting a trifle too informal
for order.  After the Senior Surgeon has finished I will call on those whom I feel have something
of--hmm--importance to say.  In the mean time, my dear young lady, I beg of you not to interrupt
again.  The children, of course, could all be returned to their homes."

"Oh no, they couldn't--"  There was something hypnotic in the persistence of the nurse in charge
of Ward C.

Usually keenly sensitive, abnormally alive to impressions and atmosphere, she shrank from ever
intruding herself or her opinions where they were not welcome; but now all personal consciousness
was dead.  She was wholly unaware that she had worked the Senior Surgeon into a state where
he had almost lost his self-control--a condition heretofore unknown in the Senior Surgeon;
that she had exasperated the President and reduced the trustees to open-mouthed amazement.
The lorgnette shook unsteadily in the hand of the Oldest; and, unmindful of it all, Margaret
MacLean went steadily on:

"Most of them haven't any homes, and the others couldn't live in theirs a month.  You don't
know how terrible they are--five families in one garret, nothing to eat some of the time, father
drunk most of the time, and filth and foul air all of the time.  That's the kind of homes they
have--if they have any."

Her outburst was met with a complete silence, ignoring and humiliating. After a moment the
Senior Surgeon went on, as if no one had spoken.

"Am I not right in supposing that you wish to further, as far as it lies within your power,
the physical welfare and betterment of the poor in this city?  That you wish to do the greatest
possible good to the greatest number of children?  Ah!  I thought so.  Well, do you not see
how continuing to keep a number of incurable cases for two or three years--or as long as they
live--is hindering this?  You are keeping out so many more curable cases.  For every case in
that ward now we could handle ten or fifteen surgical cases each year.  Is that not worth considering?"

The trustees nodded approval to one another; it was as if they would say, "The Senior Surgeon
is always right."

The surgeon himself looked at his watch; he had three minutes left to clinch their convictions.
Clearly and admirably he outlined his present scope of work; then, stepping into the future,
he showed into what it might easily grow, had it the room and beds.  He showed indisputably
what experimental surgery had done for science--what a fertile field it was; and wherein lay
Saint Margaret's chance to plow a furrow more and reap its harvest.  At the end he intimated
that he had outgrown his present limited conditions there, that unless these were changed he
should have to betake himself and his operative skill elsewhere.

A painfully embarrassing hush closed in on the meeting as the Senior Surgeon resumed his seat.
It was broken by an enthusiastic chirp from the Youngest and Prettiest Trustee.  She had never
attempted to keep her interest for him concealed in the bud, causing much perturbation to the
House Surgeon, and leading the Disagreeable Trustee to remark, frequently:

"Good Lord!  She'll throw herself at his head until he loses consciousness, and then she'll
marry him."

"I think," said she, beaming in the direction of the Senior Surgeon, "that it would be perfectly
wonderful to be the means of discovering some great new thing in surgery.  And as our own great
surgeon has just said, it is really ridiculous to let a few perfectly incurable cases stand
in the way of science."

The House Surgeon looked from the beaming profile to the tense, drawn outline of mouth and
chin belonging to the nurse in charge of Ward C, and he found himself wondering if art had
ever pictured a crucified Madonna, and, if so, why it had not taken Margaret MacLean as a model.
That moment the President called his name.

The House Surgeon was still young and unspoiled enough to blush whenever he was consulted.
Moreover, he hated to speak in public, knowing, as he did, that he lacked the cultured manner
and the polished speech of the Senior Surgeon.  He always crawled out of it whenever he could,
putting some one else more ready of tongue in his place.  He was preparing to crawl this time
when another look at the white profile in front of him brought him to his feet.

"See here," he burst out, bluntly, "we all know the chief is as clever as any surgeon in the
country, and that he can do anything in the world he sets out to do, even to turning Saint
Margaret's into a surgical laboratory.  But you ought to stop him--you've got to stop him--that
is your business as trustees of this institution.  We don't need any more surgical laboratories
just yet--they are getting along fast enough at Rockefeller, Johns Hopkins, and the Mayo clinic.
What we scientific chaps need to remember--and it ought to be hammered at us three times a
day, and then some--is that humanity was never put into the world for the sole purpose of benefiting
science.  We are apt to forget this and get to thinking that a few human beings more or less
don't count in the face of establishing one scientific fact."

He paused just long enough to snatch a breath, and then went racing madly on.  "Institutions
are apt to forget that they are taking care of the souls and minds of human beings as well
as their bodies.  It seems to me that the man who founded this hospital intended it for humane
rather than scientific purposes.  His wishes ought to be considered now; and I wager he would
say, if he were here, to let science go hang and keep the incurables."

The House Surgeon sat down, breathing heavily and mopping his forehead. It was the longest
speech he had ever made, and he was painfully conscious of its inadequacy.  The Senior Surgeon
excused himself and left the room, not, however, until he had given the House Surgeon a look
pregnant with meaning; Saint Margaret's would hardly be large enough to hold them both after
the 30th of April.

The trustees moved restlessly in their chairs.  The unexpected had happened; there was an internal
rupture at Saint Margaret's; and for forty years the trustees had boasted of its harmonious
behavior and kindly feelings.  In a like manner do those dwellers in the shadow of a volcano
continue to boast of their safety and the harmlessness of the crater up to the very hour of
its eruption.  And all the while the gray wisp of a woman by the door sat silent, her hands
still folded on her lap.

At last the President rose; he coughed twice before speaking.  "I think we will call upon the
hospital committee now for their reports. Afterward we will take up the question of the incurable
ward among the trustees--hmm--alone."

Every one sat quietly, almost listlessly, during the reading until Margaret MacLean rose, the
report for Ward C in her hand.  Then there came a raising of heads and a stiffening of backs
and a setting of chins.  She was very calm, the still calm of the China Sea before a typhoon
strikes it; when she had finished reading she put the report on the chair back of her and faced
the President with clasped hands and--a smile.

"It's funny," she said, irrelevantly, "for the first time in my life I am not afraid here."

And the House Surgeon muttered, under his breath: "Great guns!  That mind-string has snapped."

"There is more to the report than I had the courage to write down when I was making it out;
but I can give it very easily now, if you will not mind listening a little longer.  You have
always thought that I came back to Saint Margaret's because I felt grateful for what you had
done for me--for the food and the clothes and the care, and later for the education that you
paid for.  This isn't true.  I am grateful--very grateful--but it is a dutiful kind of gratitude
which wouldn't have brought me back in a thousand years.  I am so sorry to feel this way. Perhaps
I would not if, in all the years that I was here as a child, one of you had shown me a single
personal kindness, or some one had thought to send me a letter or a message while I was away
at school. My gestures, as far as the blue ribbon went, must have been thrown away, of course,
but any one could understand that I was fainting from hunger.

The mistress of the house called to one of the spinning girls, who rose and went within the
door opening from the platform at the upper end of the room. She presently returned with an
old woman, a housekeeper, as we would say, and obviously a faithful and familiar servant. After
some conversation, of which I was probably the topic, the old woman
hobbled off, laughing.  How in the name of the seven continents
had he never before realized that she was the sweetest, finest, most adorable, and onliest
girl in the world, and worth a whole board-room full of youngest and prettiest trustees?

"I came back," went on Margaret MacLean, slowly, "really because of the Old Senior Surgeon,
to stand, as he stood in the days long ago, between you and the incurable ward; to shut out--if
I could--the little, thoughtless, hurting things that you are always saying without being in
the least bit conscious of them, and to keep the children from wanting too much the friendship
and loving interest that, somehow, they expected from you.  I wanted to try and make them feel
that they were not case this and case that, abnormally diseased and therefore objects of pity
and curiosity to be pointed out to sympathetic visitors, but children--just children--with
a right to be happy and loved.  I wanted to fill their minds so full of fun and make-believe
that they would have to forget about their poor little bodies.  I tried to make you feel this
and help without putting it--cruelly--into words; but you would never understand.  You have
never let them forget for a moment that they are 'incurables,' any more than you have let me
forget that I am a--foundling."

She stopped a moment for breath, and the smile came back--a wistfully pleading smile.  "I am
afraid that last was not in the report.  What I want to say is--please keep the incurable ward;
take the time to really know them--and love them a little.  If you only could you would never
consider sending them away for a moment.  And if, in addition to the splendid care you have
given their bodies, you would only help to keep their minds and hearts sound and sweet, and
shield them against curious visitors, why--why--some of them might turn out to be 'a case in
a thousand.'  Don't you see--can't you see--that they have as much right to their scraps of
life and happiness--as your children have to their complete lives, and that there is no place
for them anywhere if Saint Margaret's closes her doors?"

With an overwhelming suddenness she became conscious of the attitude of the trustees.  She,
who was nothing but a foundling and a charity patient herself, had dared to pass judgment on
them; it was inconceivable--it was impertinent--it was beyond all precedent.  Only the gray
wisp of a woman sat silent, seeming to express nothing. Margaret MacLean's cheeks flamed; she
shrank into herself, her whole being acutely alive to their thoughts.  The scared little-girl
look came into her face.

"Perhaps--perhaps," she stammered, pitifully, "after what I have said you would rather I did
not stay on--in charge of Ward C?"

The Dominating Trustee rose abruptly.  "Mr. President, I suggest that we act upon Miss MacLean's
resignation at once."

"I second the motion," came in a quick bark from the Meanest Trustee, while the Oldest Trustee
could be heard quoting, "Sharper than a serpent's tooth--"

The Executive Trustee rose, looking past Margaret MacLean as he spoke. "In view of the fact
that we shall possibly discontinue the incurable ward, and that Miss MacLean seems wholly unsatisfied
with our methods and supervision here, I motion that her resignation be accepted now, and that
she shall be free to leave Saint Margaret's when her month shall have expired,"

"I second the motion," came from the Social Trustee, while she added to the Calculating, who
happened to be sitting next: "So ill-bred.  It just shows that a person can never be educated
above her station in life."

The President rose.  "The motion has been made and seconded.  Will you please signify by raising
your hands if it is your wish that Miss MacLean's resignation be accepted at once?"

Hand after hand went up.  Only the little gray wisp of a woman in the chair by the door sat
with her hands still folded on her lap.

"It is, so to speak, a unanimous vote."  There was a strong hint of approval in the President's
voice.  He was a good man; but he belonged to that sect which holds as one of the main articles
of its faith, "I believe in the infallibility of the rich."

"Can any one tell me when Miss MacLean's time expires?"

The person under discussion answered for herself.  "On the last day of the month, Mr. President."

"Oh, very well."  He was extremely polite in his manner.  "We thank you for your very full
and--hmm--comprehensive report.  After to-night you are excused from your duties at Saint Margaret's."

The President bowed her courteously out of the board-room, while the primroses in the green
Devonshire bowl on his desk still nodded guilelessly.

V

ODDS AND ENDS

Margaret MacLean walked the length of the first corridor; once out of sight and hearing, she
tore up the stairs, her cheeks crimson and her eyes suspiciously moist.  Before she had reached
the second flight the House Surgeon overtook her.

"I wish," he panted behind her, trying his best to look the big-brother way of old--"I wish
you'd wait a moment.  This habit of yours of always walking up is a beastly one."

"Don't worry about it."  There was a sharp, metallic ring in her voice that made it unnatural.
"That's one habit that will soon be broken."

The House Surgeon smiled rather helplessly; inside he was making one of the few prayers of
his life--a prayer to keep Margaret MacLean free of bitterness.  "There is something I want
to say to you," he began.

She broke in feverishly: "No, there isn't!  And I don't want to hear it.  I don't want to hear
you're sorry.  I don't want to hear they'll be taken care of--somewhere--somehow.  I think
I should scream if you told me it was bound to happen--or will all turn out for the best."

"I had no intention of saying any of those things--in fact, they hadn't even entered my mind.
What I was going to--"

"Oh, I know.  You were going to remind me of what you said this morning.  Almost prophetic,
wasn't it?"  And there was a strong touch of irony in her laugh.  She turned on him crushingly.
"Perhaps you knew it all along.  Perhaps it was your way of letting me down gently."

"See here," said the House Surgeon, bluntly, "that's the second disagreeable thing you've said
to-day.  I don't think it's quite square.  Do you?"

"No!"  Her lips quivered; her hands reached out toward his impulsively. "I don't know why I
keep saying things I know are not true.  I'm perfectly--unforgivably horrid."

As impulsively he took both hands, turned them palm uppermost, and kissed them.

She snatched them away; the crimson in her cheeks deepened.  "Don't, please.  Your pity only
makes it harder.  Oh, I don't know what has happened--here--"  And she struck her breast fiercely.
"If--if they send the children away I shall never believe in anything again; the part of me
that has believed and trusted and been glad will stop--it will break all to pieces."  With
a hard, dry sob she left him, running up the remaining stairs to Ward C.  She did not see his
arms reach hungrily after her or the great longing in his face.

The House Surgeon turned and went downstairs again.

In the lower corridor he ran across the President, who was looking for him.  With much courtesy
and circumlocution he was told the thing he had been waiting to hear: the board, likewise,
had discovered that Saint Margaret's had suddenly grown too small to hold both the Senior Surgeon
and himself.  Strangely enough, this troubled him little; there are times in a man's life when
even the most momentous of happenings shrink into nothing beside the simple process of telling
the girl he loves that he loves her.

The President was somewhat startled by the House Surgeon's commonplace acceptance of the board's
decision; and he returned to the board-room distinctly puzzled.

Meanwhile Margaret MacLean, having waited outside of Ward C for her cheeks to cool and her
eyes to dry, opened the door and went in.

Ward C had been fed by the assistant nurse and put to bed; that is, all who could limp or wheel
themselves about the room were back in their cribs, and the others were no longer braced or
bolstered up.  As she had expected, gloom canopied every crib and cot; beneath, eight small
figures, covered to their noses, shook with held-back sobs or wailed softly.  According to
the custom that had unwittingly established itself, Ward C was crying itself to sleep.  Not
that it knew what it was crying about, it being merely a matter of atmosphere and unstrung
nerves; but that is cause enough to turn the mind of a sick child all awry, twisting out happiness
and twisting in peevish, fretful feelings.

She stood by the door, unnoticed, looking down the ward.  Pancho lay wound up in his blanket
like a giant chrysalis, rolling in silent misery.  Sandy was stretched as straight and stiff
as if he had been "laid out"; his eyes were closed, and there was a stolid, expressionless
set to his features.  Margaret MacLean knew that it betokened much internal disturbance.  Susan,
ex-philosopher, was sobbing aloud, pulling with rebellious fingers at the pieces of iron that
kept her head where nature had planned it.  The Apostles gripped hands and moaned in unison,
while Peter hugged his blanket, seeking thereby some consolation for the dispelled Toby.  Toby
persistently refused to be conjured up on Trustee Days.

Only Bridget was alert and watchful.  One hand was slipped through the bars of Rosita's crib,
administering comforting pats to the rhythmic croon of an Irish reel.  Every once in a while
her eyes would wander to the neighboring cots with the disquiet of an over-troubled mother;
the only moments of real unhappiness or worry Bridget ever knew were those which brought sorrow
to the ward past her power of mending.

To Margaret MacLean, standing there, it seemed unbearable--as if life had suddenly become too
sinister and cruel to strike at souls so little and helpless as these.  There were things one
could never explain in terms of God.  She found herself wondering if that was why the Senior
Surgeon worshiped science; and she shivered.

The room had become repellent; it was a sepulchral place entombing all she had lost.  In the
midst of the dusk and gloom her mind groped about--after its habit--for something cheerful,
something that would break the colorless monotone of the room and change the atmosphere.  In
a flash she remembered the primroses; and the remembrance brought a smile.

"They're nothing but charlatans," she thought, "but the children will never find that out,
and they'll be something bright for them to wake up to in the morning."

This was what sent her down the stairs again, just as the board meeting adjourned.

Now the board adjourned with thumbs down--signifying that the incurable ward was no more, as
far as the future of Saint Margaret's was concerned.  The trustees stirred in their chairs
with a comfortable relaxing of joint and muscle, as if to say, "There, that is a piece of business
well despatched; nothing like methods of conservation and efficiency, you know."  Only the
little gray wisp of a woman by the door sat rigid, her hands still folded on her lap.

The Oldest Trustee had just remarked to the Social Trustee that all the things gossip had said
of the widow of the Richest Trustee were undoubtedly true--she was a nonentity--when the Senior
Surgeon dropped in.  This was according to the President's previous request.  That gentleman
of charitable parts had implied that there would undoubtedly be good news and congratulations
awaiting him. III. THE PROPHECY.

The priest and the man with the gold circlet, whom I took to be a chief, now met, and, fixing their
eyes on me, held a conversation of which, naturally, I understood nothing. I maintained an unmoved
demeanour, and, by way of showing my indifference, and also of impressing
the natives with the superiority of our civilization, I took out and
wound up my watch, which, I was glad to find, had not been utterly
ruined by the salt water.

Meanwhile the priest was fumbling in his casket, whence he produced a bundle of very ragged
and smoky old bits of parchment and scraps of potsherds. These he placed in the hands of his
attendants, who received them kneeling.


"So splendid," she chirped, "the unanimous indorsement of the board--at least, practically
unanimous."  And she eyed the widow of the Richest Trustee accusingly.

"The incurable ward and Margaret MacLean have really been a terrible responsibility, haven't
they?  I can't help feeling it will mean quite a load off our minds."  It was the Social Trustee
who spoke, and she followed it with a little sigh of relief.

The sigh was echoed twice--thrice--about the room.  Then the Meanest Trustee barked out:

"I hope it will mean a load off our purses.  That ward and that nurse have always wanted things,
and had them, that they had no business wanting.  I hope we can save a substantial sum now
for the endowment fund."

The Oldest Trustee smiled tolerantly.  "Of course it isn't as if the cases were not hopeless.
I can see no object, however, in making concessions and sacrifices to keep in the hospital
cases that cannot be cured; and, no doubt, we can place them most satisfactorily in state institutions
for orphans or deficients."

At that moment the Youngest and Prettiest Trustee spied the primroses on the President's desk--she
had been too engrossed in the surgical profession to observe much apart.  "I believe I'm going
to decorate you."  And she dimpled up at the Senior Surgeon, coquettishly. Selecting one of
the blossoms with great care, she drew it through the buttonhole in his lapel.  "See, I'm decorating
you with the Order of the Golden Primrose--for brilliancy."  Whereupon she dropped her eyes
becomingly.

"Good Lord!" muttered the Disagreeable Trustee to the President, his eye focused on the two.
"She'll fetch him this time.  And she'll have him so hypnotized with all this chirping and
dancing business that he'll be perfectly helpless in a month, or I miss--"

The Youngest and Prettiest Trustee looked up just in time to intercept that eye, and she attacked
it with a saucy little stare.  "I believe you are both jealous," she flung over her shoulder.
But the very next moment she was dimpling again.  "I believe I am going to decorate everybody--including
myself.  I'm sure we all deserve it for our loyal support of Science."  She, likewise, always
spelled it with a capital, having acquired the habit from the Senior Surgeon.

She snatched a cluster of primroses from the green Devonshire bowl; and one was fastened securely
in the lapel or frill of every trustee, not even omitting the gray wisp of a woman by the door.

And so it came to pass that every member of the board of Saint Margaret's Free Hospital for
Children went home on May Eve with one of the faeries' own flowers tucked somewhere about his
or her person. Moreover, they went home at precisely three minutes and twenty-two seconds past
seven by the clock on the tower--the astronomical time for the sun to go down on the 30th of
April.  Crack went all the combination locks on all the faery raths, spilling the Little People
over all the world; and creak went the gates of Tir-na-n'Og, swinging wide open for wandering
mortals to come back.

As the trustees left the hospital the Senior Surgeon turned into the cross-corridor for his
case, still gay with his Order of the Golden Primrose; and there, at the foot of the stairs,
he ran into Margaret MacLean.  They faced each other for the merest fraction of a breath, both
conscious and embarrassed; then she glimpsed the flower in his coat and a cry of surprise escaped
her.

He smiled, almost foolishly.  "I thought they--it--looked rather pretty and--spring-like,"
he began, by way of explanation.  His teeth ground together angrily; he sounded absurd, and
he knew it.  Furthermore, it was inexcusable of her to corner him in this fashion.

Now Margaret MacLean knew well enough that he would never have discovered the prettiness of
anything by himself--not in a century of springtimes, and she sensed the truth.

"Did she decorate you?" she inquired, with an irritating little curl of her lips.  The Senior
Surgeon's self-confessed blush lent speed to her tongue.  "I think I might be privileged to
ask what it was for.  You see, I presented the flowers to the board meeting.  Was it for self-sacrifice?"
Her eyes challenged his.

"You are capable of talking more nonsense and being more impertinent than any nurse I have
ever known.  May I pass?"  His eyes returned her challenge, blazing.

But she never moved; the mind-string once broken, there seemed to be no limit to the thoughts
that could come tumbling off the end of her tongue.  Her eyes went back to the flower in his coat.

"Perhaps you would like to know that I bought those this morning because they seemed the very
breath of spring itself--a bit of promise and gladness.  I thought they would keep the day
going right."

"Well, they have--for me."  And the Senior Surgeon could not resist a look of triumph.

"The trustees"--she drew in a quick breath and put out a steadying hand on the banisters--"you
mean--they have given up the incurable ward?"

He nodded.  His voice took on a more genial tone.  He felt he could generously afford to be
pleasant and patient toward the one who had not succeeded.  "It was something that was bound
to happen sooner or later. Can't you see that yourself?  But I am sorry, very sorry for you."

Suddenly, and for the first time in their long sojourn together in Saint Margaret's, he became
wholly conscious of the girl before him. He realized that Margaret MacLean had grown into a
vital and vitalizing personality--a force with which those who came in contact would have to
reckon.  She stood before him now, frozen into a gray, accusing figure.

"Are you ill?" he found himself asking.

"No."

He shifted his weight uneasily to the other foot.  "Is there anything you want?"

Her face softened into the little-girl look.  Her eyes brimmed with a sadness past remedy.
"What a funny question from you--you, who have taken from me the only thing I ever let myself
want--the love and dependence of those children.  Success, and having whatever you want, are
such common things with you, that you must count them very cheap; but you can't judge what
they mean to others--or what they may cost them."

"As I said before, I am sorry, very sorry you have lost your position here; but you have no
one but yourself to blame for that.  I should have been very glad to have you remain in the
new surgical ward; you are one of the best operative nurses I ever had."  He added this in
all justice to her; and to mitigate, if he could, his own feeling of discomfort.

Margaret MacLean smiled grimly.  "Thank you.  I was not referring to the loss of my position,
however; that matters very little."

"It should matter."  The voice of the Senior Surgeon became instantly professional.  "Every
nurse should put her work, satisfactorily and scientifically executed, before everything else.
That is where you are radically weak.  Let me remind you that it is your sole business to look
after the physical betterment of your patients--nothing else; and the sooner you give up all
this sentimental, fanciful nonsense the sooner you will succeed."

"You are wrong.  I should never succeed that way--never.  Some cases may need only the bodily
care--maybe; but you are a very poor doctor, after all, if you think that is all that children
need--or half the grown-ups.  There are more people ailing with mind-sickness and heart-sickness,
as well as body-sickness, than the world would guess, and you've just got to nurse the whole
of them.  You will succeed, whether you ever find this out or not; but you will miss a great
deal out of your life."

Anger was rekindling in the eyes of the Senior Surgeon; and Margaret MacLean, seeing, grew
gentle--all in a minute.

