"Gentlemen, unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I am taken quite aback by this werry unexpected
compliment (cheers); never since I filled the hancient and honerable hoffice of churchwarden
in the populous parish of St. Botolph Without, have I experienced a gratification equal to
the present. I thank you from the werry bottom of my breeches-pocket (applause). Gentlemen,
I'm no horator, but I'm a honest man (cheers). I should indeed be undeserving the name of a
sportsman--undeserving of being a member of that great and justly celebrated 'unt, of which
Mr. Happerley Nimrod has spun so handsome and flattering a yarn, if I did not feel deeply proud
of the compliment you have paid it. It is unpossible for me to follow that great sporting scholar
fairly over the ridge and furrow of his werry intricate and elegant horation, for there are
many of those fine gentlemen's names--French, I presume--that he mentioned, that I never heard
of before, and cannot recollect; but if you will allow me to run 'eel a little, I would make
a few hobservations on a few of his hobservations.--Mr. Happerley Nimrod, gentlemen, was pleased
to pay a compliment to what he was pleased to call my something 'ospitality. I am extremely
obliged to him for it. To be surrounded by one's friends is in my mind the 'Al' of 'uman 'appiness
(cheers). Gentlemen, I am most proud of the honour of seeing you all here to-day, and I hope
the grub has been to your likin' (cheers), if not, I'll discharge my butcher. On the score
of quantity there might be a little deficiency, but I hope the quality was prime. Another time
this shall be all remedied (cheers). Gentlemen, I understand those cheers, and I'm flattered
by them--I likes 'ospitality!--I'm not the man to keep my butter in a 'pike-ticket, or my coals
in a quart pot (immense cheering). Gentlemen, these are my sentiments, I leaves the flowers
of speech to them as is better acquainted with botany (laughter)--I likes plain English, both
in eating and talking, and I'm happy to see Mr. Happerley Nimrod has not forgot his, and can
put up with our homely fare, and do without pantaloon cutlets, blankets of woe,[27] and such-like
miseries."

[Footnote 27: "Blanquette de veau."]

"I hates their 'orse douvers (hors-d'oeuvres), their rots, and their poisons (poissons); 'ord
rot 'em, they near killed me, and right glad am I to get a glass of old British black strap.
And talking of black strap, gentlemen, I call on old Crane, the man what supplies it, to tip
us a song. So now I'm finished--and you, Crane, lap up your liquor and begin!" (applause).

Crane was shy--unused to sing in company--nevertheless, if it was the wish of the party, and
if it would oblige his good customer, Mr. Jorrocks, he would try his hand at a stave or two
made in honour of the immortal Surrey. Having emptied his glass and cleared his windpipe, Crane
commenced:

  "Here's a health to them that can ride!
  Here's a health to them that can ride!
  And those that don't wish good luck to the cause.
  May they roast by their own fireside!
  It's good to drown care in the chase,
  It's good to drown care in the bowl.
  It's good to support Daniel Haigh and his hounds,
  Here's his health from the depth of my soul."

  CHORUS

  "Hurrah for the loud tally-ho!
  Hurrah for the loud tally-ho!
  It's good to support Daniel Haigh and his hounds.
  And echo the shrill tally-ho!"

  "Here's a health to them that can ride!
  Here's a health to them that ride bold!
  May the leaps and the dangers that each has defied,
  In columns of sporting be told!
  Here's freedom to him that would walk!
  Here's freedom to him that would ride!
  There's none ever feared that the horn should be heard
  Who the joys of the chase ever tried."

"Beautiful! beautiful!" exclaimed Jorrocks, clapping his hands and stamping as Crane had ceased.

  "A werry good song, and it's werry well sung.
  Jolly companions every one!"

"Gentlemen, pray charge your glasses--there's one toast we must drink in a bumper if we ne'er
take a bumper again. Mr. Spiers, pray charge your glass--Mr. Stubbs, vy don't you fill up?--Mr.
Nimrod, off with your 'eel taps, pray--I'll give ye the 'Surrey 'Unt,' with all my 'art and
soul. Crane, my boy, here's your werry good health, and thanks for your song!" (All drink the
Surrey Hunt and Crane's good health, with applause, which brings him on his legs with the following
speech):

"Gentlemen, unaccustomed as I am to public speaking (laughter), I beg leave on behalf of myself
and the absent members of the Surrey 'Unt, to return you our own most 'artfelt thanks for the
flattering compliment you have just paid us, and to assure you that the esteem and approbation
of our fellow-sportsmen is to us the magnum bonum of all earthly 'appiness (cheers and laughter).
Gentlemen, I will not trespass longer upon your valuable time, but as you seem to enjoy this
wine of my friend Mr. Jorrocks's, I may just say that I have got some more of the same quality
left, at from forty-two to forty-eight shillings a dozen, also some good stout draught port,
at ten and sixpence a gallon--some ditto werry superior at fifteen; also foreign and British
spirits, and Dutch liqueurs, rich and rare." The conclusion of the vintner's address was drowned
in shouts of laughter. Mr. Jorrocks then called upon the company in succession for a toast,
a song, or a sentiment. Nimrod gave, "The Royal Staghounds"; Crane gave, "Champagne to our
real friends, and real pain to our sham friends"; Green sung, "I'd be a butterfly"; Mr. Stubbs
gave, "Honest men and bonnie lasses"; and Mr. Spiers, like a patriotic printer, gave, "The
liberty of the Press," which he said was like fox-hunting--"if we have it not we die"--all
of which Mr. Jorrocks applauded as if he had never heard them before, and drank in bumpers.
It was evident that unless tea was speedily announced he would soon become;

  O'er the ills of life victorious,

for he had pocketed his wig, and had been clipping the Queen's English for some time. After
a pause, during which his cheeks twice changed colour, from red to green and back to red, he
again called for a bumper toast, which he prefaced with the following speech, or parts of a speech:

"Gentlemen--in rising--propose toast about to give--feel werry--feel werry--(Yorkshireman,
'werry muzzy?') J---- feel werry--(Mr. Spiers, 'werry sick?') J---- werry--(Crane, 'werry thirsty?')
J---- feel werry --(Nimrod, 'werry wise?') J---- no; but werry sensible --great compliment--eyes
of England upon us--give you the health--Mr. Happerley Nimrod--three times three!"

He then attempted to rise for the purpose of marking the time, but his legs deserted his body,
and after two or three lurches down he went with a tremendous thump under the table. He called
first for "Batsay," then for "Binjimin," and, game to the last, blurted out, "Lift me up!--tie
me in my chair!--fill my glass!"

XIII. THE DAY AFTER THE FEAST: AN EPISODE BY THE YORKSHIREMAN

On the morning after Mr. Jorrocks's "dinner party" I had occasion to go into the city, and
took Great Coram Street in my way. My heart misgave me when I recollected Mrs. J---- and her
horrid paws, but still I thought it my duty to see how the grocer was after his fall. Arrived
at the house I rang the area bell, and Benjamin, who was cleaning knives below, popped his
head up, and seeing who it was, ran upstairs and opened the door. His master was up, he said,
but "werry bad," and his misses was out. Leaving him to resume his knife-cleaning occupation,
I slipped quietly upstairs, and hearing a noise in the bedroom, opened the door, and found
Jorrocks sitting in his dressing-gown in an easy chair, with Betsey patting his bald head with
a damp towel.

"Do that again, Batsay! Do that again!" was the first sound I heard, being an invitation to
Betsey to continue her occupation. "Here's the Yorkshireman, sir," said Betsey, looking around.

"Ah, Mr. York, how are you this morning?" said he, turning a pair of eyes upon me that looked
like boiled gooseberries--his countenance indicating severe indisposition. "Set down, sir;
set down--I'm werry bad--werry bad indeed--bad go last night. Doesn't do to go to the lush-crib
this weather. How are you, eh? tell me all about it. Is Mr. Nimrod gone?"

"Don't know," said I; "I have just come from Lancaster Street, where I have been seeing an
aunt, and thought I would take Great Coram Street in my way to the city, to ask how you do--but
where's Mrs. Jorrocks?"

Jorrocks. Oh, cuss Mrs. J----; I knows nothing about her--been reading the Riot Act, and giving
her red rag a holiday all the morning--wish to God I'd never see'd her--took her for better
and worser, it's werry true; but she's a d----d deal worser than I took her for. Hope your
hat may long cover your family. Mrs. J----'s gone to the Commons to Jenner--swears she'll have
a diworce, a mensa et thorax, I think she calls it--wish she may get it--sick of hearing her
talk about it--Jenner's the only man wot puts up with her, and that's because he gets his fees.
Batsay, my dear! you may damp another towel, and then get me something to cool my coppers--all
in a glow, I declare--complete fever. You whiles go to the lush-crib, Mr. Yorkshireman; what
now do you reckon best after a regular drench?

Yorkshireman. Oh, nothing like a glass of soda-water with a bottom of brandy--some people prefer
a sermon, but that won't suit you or I. After your soda and brandy take a good chivy in the
open air, and you'll be all right by dinner-time.

Jorrocks. Right I Bliss ye, I shall niver be right again. I can scarce move out of my chair,
I'm so bad--my head's just fit to split in two--I'm in no state to be seen.

Yorkshireman. Oh, pooh!--get your soda-water and brandy, then have some strong coffee and a
red herring, and you'll be all right, and if you'll find cash, I'll find company, and we'll
go and have a lark together.

Jorrocks. Couldn't really be seen out---besides, cash is werry scarce. By the way, now that
I come to think on it, I had a five-pounder in my breeches last night. Just feel in the pocket
of them 'ere nankeens, and see that Mrs. J---- has not grabbed it to pay Jenner's fee with.

Yorkshireman (feels). No--all right--here it is--No. 10,497--I promise to pay Mr. Thos. Rippon,
or bearer, on demand, five pounds! Let's demand it, and go and spend the cash.

Jorrocks. No, no--put it back--or into the table-drawer, see--fives are werry scarce with me--can't
afford it--must be just before I'm generous.

Yorkshireman. Well, then, J----, you must just stay at home and get bullied by Mrs. J----,
who will be back just now, I dare say, perhaps followed by Jenner and half Doctors' Commons.

Jorrocks. The deuce! I forgot all that--curse Mrs. J---- and the Commons too. Well, Mr. Yorkshireman,
I don't care if I do go with you--but where shall it be to? Some place where we can be quiet,
for I really am werry bad, and not up to nothing like a lark.

Yorkshireman. Suppose we take a sniff of the briny--Margate--Ramsgate--Broadstairs?

Jorrocks. No, none of them places--over-well-known at 'em all--can't be quiet--get to the lush-crib
again, perhaps catch the cholera and go to Gravesend by mistake. Let's go to the Eel Pye at
Twickenham and live upon fish.

Yorkshireman. Fish! you old flat. Why, you know, you'd be the first to cry out if you had to
do so. No, no--let's have no humbug--here, drink your coffee like a man, and then hustle your
purse and see what it will produce. Why, even Betsey's laughing at the idea of your living
upon fish.

Jorrocks. Don't shout so, pray--your woice shoots through every nerve of my head and distracts
me (drinks). This is grand Mocho--quite the cordial balm of Gilead--werry fine indeed. Now
I feel rewived and can listen to you.

Yorkshireman. Well, then, pull on your boots--gird up your loins, and let's go and spend this
five pounds--stay away as long as it lasts, in fact.

Jorrocks. Well, but give me the coin--it's mine you know--and let me be paymaster, or I know
you'll soon be into dock again. That's right; and now I have got three half-crowns besides,
which I will add.

Yorkshireman. And I've got three pence, which, not to be behind-hand in point of liberality,
I'll do the same with, so that we have got five pounds seven shillings and ninepence between
us, according to Cocker.

Jorrocks. Between us, indeed! I likes that. You're a generous churchwarden.

Yorkshireman. Well--we won't stand upon trifles the principle is the thing I look to--and not
the amount. So now where to, your honour?

After a long parley, we fixed upon Herne Bay. Our reasons for doing so were numerous, though
it would be superfluous to mention them, save that the circumstance of neither of us ever having
been there, and the prospect of finding a quiet retreat for Jorrocks to recover in, were the
principal ones. Our arrangements were soon made. "Batsay," said J---- to his principessa of
a cook, slut, and butler, "the Yorkshireman and I are going out of town to stay five pounds
seven and ninepence, so put up my traps." Two shirts (one to wash the other as he said), three
pairs of stockings, with other etceteras, were stamped into a carpet-bag, and taking a cab,
we called at the "Piazza," where I took a few things, and away we drove to Temple Bar. "Stop
here with the bags," said Jorrocks, "while I go to the Temple Stairs and make a bargain with
a Jacob Faithful to put us on board, for if they see the bags they'll think it's a case of
necessity, and ask double; whereas I'll pretend I'm just going a-pleasuring, and when I've
made a bargain, I'll whistle, and you can come." Away he rolled, and after the lapse of a few
minutes I heard a sort of shilling-gallery cat-call, and obeying the summons, found he had
concluded a bargain for one and sixpence. We reached St. Catherine's Docks just as the Herne
Bay boat--the Hero--moored alongside, consequently were nearly the first on board.

Herne Bay being then quite in its infancy, and this being what the cits call a "weekday," they
had rather a shy cargo, nor had they any of that cockney tomfoolery that generally characterises
a Ramsgate or Margate crew, more particularly a Margate one. Indeed, it was a very slow cargo,
Jorrocks being the only character on board, and he was as sulky as a bear with a sore head
when anyone approached. The day was beautifully fine, and a thin grey mist gradually disappeared
from the Kentish hills as we passed down the Thames. The river was gay enough. Adelaide, Queen
of Great Britain and Ireland, was expected on her return from Germany, and all the vessels
hung out their best and gayest flags and colours to do her honour. The towns of Greenwich and
Woolwich were in commotion. Charity schools were marching, and soldiers were doing the like,
while steamboats went puffing down the river with cargoes to meet and escort Her Majesty. When
we got near Tilbury Fort, a man at the head of the steamer announced that we should meet the
Queen in ten minutes, and all the passengers crowded on to the paddle-box of the side on which
she was to pass, to view and greet her. Jorrocks even roused himself up and joined the throng.
Presently a crowd of steamers were seen in the distance, proceeding up the river at a rapid
pace, with a couple of lofty-masted vessels in tow, the first of which contained the royal
cargo. The leading steamboat was the celebrated Magnet--considered the fastest boat on the
river, and the one in which Jorrocks and myself steamed from Margate, racing against and beating
the Royal William. This had the Lord Mayor and Aldermen on board, who had gone down to the
extent of the city jurisdiction to meet the Queen, and have an excuse for a good dinner. The
deck presented a gay scene, being covered with a military band, and the gaudy-liveried lackeys
belonging to the Mansion House, and sheriffs whose clothes were one continuous mass of gold
lace and frippery, shining beautifully brilliant in the midday sun. The royal yacht, with its
crimson and gold pennant floating on the breeze, came towering up at a rapid pace, with the
Queen sitting under a canopy on deck. As we neared, all hats were off, and three cheers--or
at least as many as we could wedge in during the time the cortège took to sweep past us--were
given, our band consisting of three brandy-faced musicians, striking up God save the King--a
compliment which Her Majesty acknowledged by a little mandarining; and before the majority
of the passengers had recovered from the astonishment produced by meeting a live Queen on the
Thames, the whole fleet had shot out of sight. Surely something out of the ordinary was to be
expected of the man who could "repeat the AEneid of Virgil from the beginning to the end without hesitation,
and indicate the first and last line of every page of the edition which he used." Something was
expected, and he fulfilled these expectations.

In early life he devoted himself to the study of theology and the Oriental languages, at the
request of his father, but his love of mathematics proved too strong, and, with his father's consent,
he finally gave up his classical studies and turned to his favorite study, geometry. In 1727
he was invited by Catharine I. to reside in St. Petersburg, and on
accepting this invitation he was made an associate of the Academy
of Sciences.

With the reader's permission, we will suppose that we have just landed, and, bags in hand,
ascended the flight of steps that conduct passengers, as it were, from the briny ocean on to
the stage of life.

"My eyes!" said Jorrocks, as he reached the top, "wot a pier, and wot a bit of a place! Why,
there don't seem to be fifty houses altogether, reckoning the windmill in the centre as one.
What's this thing?" said he to a ticket-porter, pointing to a sort of French diligence-looking
concern which had just been pushed up to the landing end. "To carry the lumber, sir--live and
dead--gentlemen and their bags, as don't like to walk." "Do you charge anything for the ride?"
inquired Jorrocks, with his customary caution. "Nothing," was the answer. "Then, let's get
on the roof," said J----, "and take it easy, and survey the place as we go along." So, accordingly,
we clambered on to the top of the diligence, "summâ diligentiâ," and seated ourselves on a
pile of luggage; being all stowed away, and as many passengers as it would hold put inside,
two or three porters proceeded to propel the machine along the railroad on which it runs. "Now,
Mr. Yorkshireman," said Jorrocks, "we are in a strange land, and it behoves us to proceed with
caution, or we may spend our five pounds seven and sixpence before we know where we are."

Yorkshireman. Seven and ninepence it is, sir.

Jorrocks. Well, be it so--five pounds seven and ninepence between two, is by no means an impossible
sum to spend, and the trick is to make it go as far as we can. Now some men can make one guinea
go as far as others can make two, and we will try what we can do. In the first place, you know
I makes it a rule never to darken the door of a place wot calls itself an 'otel, for 'otel
prices and inn prices are werry different. You young chaps don't consider these things, and
as long as you have got a rap in the world you go swaggering about, ordering claret and waxlights,
and everything wot's expensive, as though you must spend money because you are in an inn. Now,
that's all gammon. If a man haven't got money he can't spend it; and we all know that many
poor folks are obliged at times to go to houses of public entertainment, and you don't suppose
that they pay for fire and waxlights, private sitting-rooms, and all them 'ere sort of things.
Now, said he, adjusting his hunting telescope and raking the town of Herne Bay, towards which
we were gently approaching on our dignified eminence, but as yet had not got near enough to
descry "what was what" with the naked eye, I should say yon great staring-looking shop directly
opposite us is the cock inn of the place (looks through his glass). I'm right P-i-e-r, Pier
'Otel I reads upon the top, and that's no shop for my money. Let's see what else we have. There's
nothing on the right, I think, but here on the left is something like our cut--D-o-l dol, p-h-i-n
phin, Dolphin Inn. It's long since I went the circuit, as the commercial gentlemen (or what
were called bagmen in my days) term it, but I haven't forgot the experience I gained in my
travels, and I whiles turn it to werry good account now.

"Coach to Canterbury, Deal, Margate, sir, going directly," interrupted him, and reminded us
that we had got to the end of the pier, and ought to be descending. Two or three coaches were
drawn up, waiting to carry passengers on, but we had got to our journey's end. "Now," said
J----, "let's take our bags in hand and draw up wind, trying the 'Dolphin' first."

Rejecting the noble portals of the Pier Hotel, we advanced towards Jorrocks's chosen house,
a plain unpretending-looking place facing the sea, which is half the battle, and being but
just finished had every chance of cleanliness. "Jonathan Acres" appeared above the door as
the name of the landlord, and a little square-built, hatless, short-haired chap, in a shooting-jacket,
was leaning against the door. "Mr. Hacres within?" said Jorrocks. "My name's Acres," said he
of the shooting-jacket. Future generations, working with perfected instruments, may not sustain him
all along the line of his observations, even, let alone his inferences.
But how one's egotism shrivels and shrinks as one grasps the import
of his sweeping thoughts! "Mr. Hacres," said
Jorrocks, "I makes it a rule never to pay more than two and sixpence for a feed, so now just
give us as good a one as you possibly can for that money": and about seven o'clock we sat down
to lamb-chops, ducks, French beans, pudding, etc.; shortly after which Jorrocks retired to
rest, to sleep off the remainder of his headache. He was up long before me the next morning,
and had a dip in the sea before I came down. "Upon my word," said he, as I entered the room,
and found him looking as lively and fresh as a four-year-old, "it's worth while going to the
lush-crib occasionally, if it's only for the pleasure of feeling so hearty and fresh as one
does on the second day. I feel just as if I could jump out of my skin, but I will defer the
performance until after breakfast. I have ordered a fork one, do you know, cold 'am and boiled
bacon, with no end of eggs, and bread of every possible description. By the way, I've scraped
acquaintance with Thorp, the baker hard by, who's a right good fellow, and says he will give
me some shooting, and has some werry nice beagles wot he shoots to. But here's the grub. Cold
'am in abundance. But, waiter, you should put a little green garnishing to the dishes, I likes
to see it, green is so werry refreshing to the eye; and tell Mr. Hacres to send up some more
bacon and the bill, when I rings the bell. Nothing like having your bill the first morning,
and then you know what you've got to pay, and can cut your coat according to your cloth." The
bacon soon disappeared, and the bell being sounded, produced the order.

"Humph," said J----, casting his eyes over the bill as it lay by the side of his plate, while
he kept pegging away at the contents of the neighbouring dish--"pretty reasonable, I think--dinners,
five shillings, that's half a crown each; beds, two shillings each; breakfasts, one and ninepence
each, that's cheap for a fork breakfast; but, I say, you had a pint of sherry after I left
you last night, and PALE sherry too! How could you be such an egreggorus (egregious) ass! That's
so like you young chaps, not to know that the only difference between pale and brown sherry
is, that one has more of the pumpaganus aqua in it than the other. You should have made it
pale yourself, man. But look there. Wot a go!"

Our attention was attracted to a youth in spectacles, dressed in a rich plum-coloured coat,
on the outside of a dingy-looking, big-headed, brown nag, which he was flogging and cramming
along the public walk in front of the "Dolphin," in the most original and ludicrous manner.
We presently recognised him as one of our fellow-passengers of the previous day, respecting
whom Jorrocks and I had had a dispute as to whether he was a Frenchman or a German. His equestrian
performances decided the point. I never in all my life witnessed such an exhibition, nor one
in which the performer evinced such self-complacency. Whether he had ever been on horseback
before or not I can't tell, but the way in which he went to work, using the bridle as a sort
of rattle to frighten the horse forward, the way in which he shook the reins, threw his arms
about, and belaboured the poor devil of an animal in order to get him into a canter (the horse
of course turning away every time he saw the blow coming), and the free, unrestrained liberty
he gave to his head, surpassed everything of the sort I ever saw, and considerably endangered
the lives of several of His Majesty's lieges that happened to be passing. Instead of getting
out of their way, Frenchmanlike, he seemed to think everything should give way to an equestrian;
and I saw him scatter a party of ladies like a covey of partridges, by riding slap amongst
them, and not even making the slightest apology or obeisance for the rudeness. There he kept,
cantering (or cantering as much as he could induce the poor rip to do) from one end of the
town to the other, conceiving, I make not the slightest doubt, that he was looked upon with
eyes of admiration by the beholders. He soon created no little sensation, and before he was
done a crowd had collected near the Pier Hotel, to see him get his horse past (it being a Pier
Hotel nag) each time; and I heard a primitive sort of postman, who was delivering the few letters
that arrive in the place, out of a fish-basket, declare "that he would sooner kill a horse
than lend it to such a chap." Having fretted his hour away, the owner claimed the horse, and
Monsieur was dismounted.

After surveying the back of the town, we found ourselves rambling in some beautiful picturesque
fields in the rear. Kent is a beautiful county, and the trimly kept gardens, and the clustering
vines twining around the neatly thatched cottages, remind one of the rich, luxuriant soil and
climate of the South. Forgetting that we were in search of sea breezes, we continued to saunter
on, across one field, over one stile and then over another, until after passing by the side
of a snug-looking old-fashioned house, with a beautifully kept garden, the road took a sudden
turn and brought us to some parkish-looking well-timbered ground in front, at one side of which
Jorrocks saw something that he swore was a kennel.

"I knows a hawk from a hand-saw," said he, "let me alone for that. I'll swear there are hounds
in it. Bless your heart, don't I see a gilt fox on one end, and a gilt hare on the other?"

