I think it is historically correct to say that the reason of the sudden and revolutionary change
in the education of American women, which began with the nineteenth century and continued through
it, was the realization that if we were to make real democrats, we must begin with the child,
and if we began with the child, we must begin with the mother!

Everybody saw that unless the child learned by example and precept the great principles of
liberty, equality, and fraternity, he was going to remain what by nature we all are,--imperious,
demanding, and self-seeking. The whole scheme must fail if his education failed. It is not
too much to say that the success of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution depended,
in the minds of certain early Democrats, upon the woman. The doctrines of these great instruments
would be worked out according to the way she played her part. Her serious responsibility came
in the fact that her work was one that nobody could take off her hands. This responsibility
required a preparation entirely different from that which had been hers. She must be given
education and liberty. The woman saw this, and the story of her efforts to secure both, that
she might meet the requirements, is one of the noblest in history. There was no doubt, then,
as to the value of the tasks, no question as to their being worthy national obligations. It
was a question of fitting herself for them.

But what has happened? In the process of preparing herself to discharge more adequately her
task as a woman in a republic, her respect for the task has been weakened. In this process,
which we call emancipation, she has in a sense lost sight of the purposes of emancipation.
Interested in acquiring new tools, she has come to believe the tools more important than the
thing for which she was to use them. She has found out that with education and freedom, pursuits
of all sorts are open to her, and by following these pursuits she can preserve her personal
liberty, avoid the grave responsibility, the almost inevitable sorrows and anxieties, which
belong to family life. She can choose her friends and change them. She can travel, and gratify
her tastes, satisfy her personal ambitions. The snare has been too great; the beauty and joy
of free individual life have dulled the sober sense of national obligation. The result is that
she is frequently failing to discharge satisfactorily some of the most imperative demands the
nation makes upon her.

Take as an illustration the moral training of the child. The most essential obligation in a
Woman's Business is establishing her household on a sound moral basis. If a child is anchored
to basic principles, it is because his home is built on them. If he understands integrity as
a man, it is usually because a woman has done her work well. If she has not done it well, it
is probable that he will be a disturbance and a menace when he is turned over to society. Sending
defective steel to a gunmaker is no more certain to result in unsafe guns than turning out
boys who are shifty and tricky is to result in a corrupt and unhappy community.

Appalled by the seriousness of the task, or lured from it by the joys of liberty and education,
the woman has too generally shifted it to other shoulders--shoulders which were waiting to
help her work out the problem, but which could never be a substitute. She has turned over the
child to the teacher, secular and religious, and fancied that he might be made a man of integrity
by an elaborate system of teaching in a mass. Has this shifting of responsibility no relation
to the general lowering of our commercial and political morality?

For years we have been bombarded with evidence of an appalling indifference to the moral quality
of our commercial and political transactions. It is not too much to say that the revelations
of corruption in our American cities, the use of town councils, State legislatures, and even
of the Federal Government in the interests of private business, have discredited the democratic
system throughout the world. It has given more material for those of other lands who despise
democracy to sneer at us than anything that has yet happened in this land. And this has come
about under the régime of the emancipated woman. Is she in no way responsible for it? If she
had kept the early ideals of the woman's part in democracy as clearly before her eyes as she
has kept some of her personal wants and needs, could there have been so disastrous a condition?
Would she be the Uneasy Woman she is if she had kept faith with the ideals that forced her
emancipation?--if she had not substituted for them dreams of personal ambition, happiness,
and freedom!

The failure to fulfill your function in the scheme under which you live always produces unrest.
Content of mind is usually in proportion to the service one renders in an undertaking he believes
worth while. If our Uneasy Woman could grasp the full meaning of her place in this democracy,
a place so essential that democracy must be overthrown unless she rises to it--a part which
man is not equipped to play and which he ought not to be asked to play, would she not cease
to apologize for herself--cease to look with envy on man's occupations? Would she not rise
to her part and we not have at last the "new woman" of whom we have talked so long?

Learning, business careers, political and industrial activities--none of these things is more
than incidental in the national task of woman. Her great task is to prepare the citizen. The
citizen is not prepared by a training in practical politics. Something more fundamental is
required. The meaning of honor and of the sanctity of one's word, the understanding of the
principles of democracy and of the society in which we live, the love of humanity, and the
desire to serve,--these are what make a good citizen. The tools for preparing herself to give
this training are in the woman's hands. It calls for education, and the nation has provided
it. It calls for freedom of movement and expression, and she has them. It calls for ability
to organize, to discuss problems, to work for whatever changes are essential. She is developing
this ability. It may be that it calls for the vote. I do not myself see this, but it is certain
that she will have the vote as soon as not a majority, but an approximate half, not of men--but
of women--feel the need of it.

What she has partially at least lost sight of is that education, freedom, organization, agitation,
the suffrage, are but tools to an end. What she now needs is to formulate that end so nobly
and clearly that the most ignorant woman may understand it. The failure to do this is leading
her deeper and deeper into fruitless unrest. It is also dulling her sense of the necessity
of keeping her business abreast with the times. My brother and my aunt Wenbourne were likewise
invited; we found them there.

Ever since the scene with Mr. Clifton I have been constantly denied
to him, and positively refused all his applications for an interview;
conceiving it to be just not to let him imagine there was any doubt
on my mind, relative to his proceedings and their motives.

We had scarcely sat down to table before he came in, as if by accident. This was a subterfuge.
To what will not error and the abandonment of the passions submit?

After apologies for dropping in and disturbing so much good company, and a repetition of--I am
very glad to see you, sir; you do my table honour, and other like
marked compliments from Lord Fitz-Allen, Clifton seated himself and
endeavoured to assume his former gaiety and humour.

 All day they shelter millions of women who toil from
dawn to dark to put meaning into them. To shelter two people and the children that come to
them, to provide them a place in which to eat and sleep, is that the only function of these
homes? If that were all, few homes would be built. When that becomes all, the home is no more!
To furnish a body for a soul, that is the physical function of the home.

There are certain people who cry out that for a woman this undertaking has no meaning--that
for her it is a cook stove and a dustpan, a childbed, and a man who regards her as his servant.
One might with equal justice say that for the man it is made up of ten, twelve, or more hours,
at the plow, the engine, the counter, or the pen for the sake of supporting a woman and children
whom he rarely sees! Unhappily, there are such combinations; they are not homes! They are deplorable
failures of people who have tried to make homes. To insist that they are anything else is to
overlook the facts of life, to doubt the sanity of mankind which hopefully and courageously
goes on building, building, building, sacrificing, binding itself forever and ever to what?--a
shell? No, to the institution which its observation and experience tell it, is the one out
of which men and women have gotten the most hope, dignity, and joy,--the place through which,
whatever its failures and illusions, they get the fullest development and the opportunity to
render the most useful social service.

It is this grounded conviction that the home takes first rank among social institutions which
gives its tremendous seriousness to the Business of Being a Woman. She is the one who must
sit always at its center, the one who holds a strategic position for dealing directly with
its problems. Far from these problems being purely of a menial nature, as some would have us
believe, they are of the most delicate social and spiritual import. A woman in reality is at
the head of a social laboratory where all the problems are of primary, not secondary, importance,
since they all deal directly with human life.

One of the most illuminating experiences of travel is visiting the great chateaux of France.
One goes to see "historical monuments," the scenes of strange and tragic human experiences;
he finds he is in somebody's private house, which by order of the government is opened to the
public one day of the week! He probably will not realize this fully unless he suddenly opens
a door, not intended to be opened, behind which he finds a mass of children's toys--go-carts
and dolls, balls and tennis rackets--or stumbles into a room supposed to be locked where framed
photographs, sofa cushions, and sewing tables abound!

To the average American it comes almost as a shock that these open homes are the logic of democracy.
It is almost sure to set him thinking that after all the home, anybody's home, even one in
such big contrast to this chateau as a two-story frame house, on Avenue A, in B-ville, has
a relation to the public. He has touched a great social truth.

To socialize her home, that is the high undertaking a woman has on her hands if she is to get
at the heart of her Business. And what do we mean by socialization? Is it other than to put
the stamp of affectionate, intelligent human interest upon all the operations and the intercourse
of the center she directs? To make a place in which the various members can live freely and
draw to themselves those with whom they are sympathetic--a place in which there is spiritual
and intellectual room for all to grow and be happy each in his own way?

I doubt if there is any problem in the Woman's Business which requires a higher grade of intelligence,
and certainly none that requires broader sympathies, than this of giving to her home that quality
of stimulation and joyousness which makes young and old seek it gladly and freely.

To do this requires money, freedom, time, and strength? No, what I mean does not depend upon
these things. It is the notion that it does that often prevents its growth. For it is a spirit,
an attitude of mind, and not a formula or a piece of machinery. As far as my observation goes
it is quite, if not more likely, to be found in a three-room apartment, where a family is living
on fifteen dollars a week, as in an East Central Park mansion! In these little families where
love prevails--it usually does exist. It is the kind of an atmosphere in which a man prefers
to smoke his pipe rather than go to the saloon; where the girl brings her young man home rather
than walk with him. Mutual interest and affection is its note. Such homes do exist by the tens
of thousands; even in New York City. It is not from them that girls go to brothels or boys
to the Tombs.

Externally, these homes are often pretty bad to look at--overcrowded, disorderly, and noisy.
Cleanliness, order, and space are good things, but it is a mistake to think that there is no
virtue without them. There are more primary and essential things; things to which they should
be added, but without which they are lifeless virtues. In one of Miss Loane's reports on the
life of the English poor, she makes these truthful observations:--

  One learns to understand how it is that the dirty, untidy young
  wife, who, when her husband returns hungry and tired from a long
  day's work, holds up a smilingly assured face to be kissed,
  exclaiming, "Gracious! if I hadn't forgot all about your tea!" and
  clatters together an extravagant and ill-chosen meal while she
  pours out a stream of cheerful and inconsequent chatter, is more
  loved, and dealt with more patiently, tenderly, and faithfully,
  than her clean and frugal neighbor, who has prepared a meal that
  ought to turn the author of Twenty Satisfying Suppers for Sixpence
  green with envy, but who expects her husband to be eternally
  grateful because "he could eat his dinner off the boards,"--when
  all that the poor man asks is to be allowed to walk over them
  unreproached.

Peace and good will may go with disorder and carelessness! They may fly order and thrift. They
will fly them when order and thrift are held as the more desirable. A woman is often slow to
learn that good housekeeping alone cannot produce a milieu in which family happiness thrives
and to which people naturally gravitate. She looks at it as the fulfillment of the law--the
end of her Business. It is the exaggerated place she gives it in the scheme of things, which
brings disaster to her happiness and gives substance to the argument that woman's lot in life
is fatal to her development. Housekeeping is only the shell of a Woman's Business. Women lose
themselves in it as men lose themselves in shopkeeping, farming, editing. Knowing nothing but
your work is one of the commonest human mistakes. Pitifully enough it is often a deliberate
mistake--the only way or the easiest way one finds to quiet an unsatisfied heart. The undue
place given good housekeeping in many a woman's scheme of life is the more tragic because it
is a distortion of one of the finest things in the human experience--the satisfaction of doing
a thing well. It is a satisfaction which the worker must have if he is to get joy from his
labor. But labor is not for the sake of itself. It must have its human reason. You rejoice
in a "deep-driven plow"--but if there was to be no harvest, your straight, full furrows would
be little comfort. You rejoice to build a stanch and beautiful house, but if you knew it was
to stand forever vacant, joy would go from your task. An end work must have. One does not keep
house for its own sake. It is absorption in the process--the refusal to allow it to be forgotten
or utilized freely, that makes the work barren. It is like becoming so absorbed in a beautiful
frame that you are unconscious of the picture--unconscious that there is a picture. Things
must serve their purpose if they are to convince of their beauty. Try living in a room with
a wonderfully fitted fireplace; its mantel of exquisite design and workmanship, its fire irons
masterpieces of art--and no heat from it! Note how utterly distasteful it all becomes. It is
no longer beautiful because it does not do the work it was made beautiful to do.

One of the most repellent houses in which I have ever visited was one in which there was, from
garret to cellar, so far as I discovered, not one article which was not of the period imitated,
not one streak of color which was not "right." It was a masterpiece of correct furnishing,
but it gave one a curious sense of limitation. One could not escape the scheme. The inelasticity
of it hampered sociability--and there grew on one, too, a sense of unfitness. His clothes were
an anachronism! They were the only thing which did not belong!

There is an old-fashioned adjective which describes better than any other this preoccupation
with things, which so often prevents a woman's coming to an understanding of the heart of her
Business. It is old maidish. It has often been the pathetic fate of single women to live alone.
To minister to themselves becomes their occupation. The force of their natures turns to their
belongings. If in straitened circumstances they give their souls to spotless floors; if rich,
to flawless mahogany and china, to perfect household machinery. Wherever you find in woman
this perversion--old maidish is perhaps the most accurate word for her--it is a sacrifice of
the human to the material. A house without sweet human litter, without the trace of many varying
tastes and occupations, without the trail of friends who perhaps have no sense of beauty but
who love to give, without the scars of use, and the dust of running feet--what is it but a
meatless shell!

This devotion to "things" may easily become a ghoulish passion. It is such that Ibsen hints
at in the Master Builder, when he makes Aline Solness attribute her perpetual black, her somber
eyes and smileless lips, not to the death of her two little boys which has come about through
the burning of her home, that was a "dispensation of Providence" to which she "bows in submission,"
but to the destruction of the things which were "mine"--"All the old portraits were burnt upon
the walls, and all the old silk dresses were burnt that had belonged to the family for generations
and generations. And all mother's and grandmother's lace--that was burnt, too, and only think,
the jewels too."

One of the most disastrous effects of this preocccupation with the things and the labors of
the household is the killing of conversation. There is perhaps no more general weakness in
the average American family than glumness! The silent newspaper-reading father, the worried
watchful mother, the surly boy, the fretful girl, these are characters typical in both town
and country. In one of Mrs. Daskam Bacon's lively tales, "Ardelia in Arcadia," the little heroine
is transplanted from a lively, chattering, sweltering New York street to the maddening silence
of an overworked farmer's table. She stands it as long as she can, then cries out, "For Gawd's
sake, talk!"

One secret of the attraction for the young of the city over the country or small town is contact
with those who talk. They are conscious of the exercise of a freedom they have never known--the
freedom to say what rises to the lips. They experience the unknown joy of play of mind. According
to their observation the tongue and mind are used only when needed for serious service: to
keep them active, to allow them to perform whatever nimble feats their owners fancy--this is
a revelation!

Free family talk is sometimes ruined by a mistaken effort to direct it according to some artificial
notions of what conversation means. Conversation means free giving of what is uppermost in
the mind. The more spontaneous it is the more interesting and genuine it is. It is this freedom
which gives to the talk of the child its surprises and often its startling power to set one
thinking. Holding talk to some severe standard of consistency, dignity, or subject is sure
to stiffen and hamper it. There could have been nothing very free or joyful about talking according
to a program as the ladies of the eighteenth-century salons were more or less inclined. Good
conversation runs like water; nothing is foreign to it. "Farming is such an unintellectual
subject," I heard a critical young woman say to her husband, whose tastes were bucolic. The
young woman did not realize that one of the masterpieces of the greatest of the world's writers
was on farming--most practical farming, too! That which relates to the life of each, interests
each, concerns each--that is the material for conversation, if it is to be enjoyable or productive.

One of a woman's real difficulties in creating a free-speaking household is her natural tendency
to regard opinions as personal. To differ is something she finds it difficult to tolerate.
To her mind it is to be unfriendly. This propensity to give a personal turn to things is an
expression of that intensity of nature which makes her, as Mr. Kipling has truthfully put it,
"more deadly than the male!" She must be that--were she not, the race would dwindle. He would
never sacrifice himself as she does for the preservation of the young! This necessity of concentrating
her whole being on a little group makes her personal. The wise woman is she who recognizes
that like all great forces this, too, has its weakness. Because a woman must be "more deadly
than the male" in watching her offspring is no reason she should be so in guarding an opinion. And,
for the virtuous and the wise, the full stream of pleasure may richly
flow: but not for me!

Pretend not that I may walk with the gods! I who have been the inmate of fiends! I, who proposed
glory to myself from the most contemptible of pursuits! It does prevent things becoming settled
in the way that the woman, as a rule, loves to have them, but this disturbance prevents the
rigid intellectual and spiritual atmosphere which often drives the young from home. Peace which
comes from submission and restraint is a poor thing. In the long run it turns to revolt. The
woman, if she examines her own soul, knows the effect upon it of habitual submission to a husband's
opinion. She knows it is a habit fatal to her own development. Do not her virtues and her wisdom
communicate themselves to all around her? Are not her resignation, her fortitude, and her cheerfulness
in pain, lessons which I might traverse kingdoms and not find an opportunity like this of learning?
 It has made it the more difficult, also, to work out that socialization
of her home which, as her children grow older, she realizes, if she thinks, is one of her most
imperative duties.

A woman is very prone to look on marriage as a merger of personalities, but there can be no
great union where an individuality permits itself to be ruined. The notion that a woman's happiness
depends on the man--that he must "make her happy"--is a basic untruth. Life is an individual
problem, and consequently happiness must be. Others may hamper it, but in the final summing
up it is you, not another, who gives or takes it--no two people can work out a high relation
if the precious inner self of either is sacrificed.

Emerson has said the great word:--

    Leave all for love;
    Yet, hear me, yet,
    Keep thee to-day,
    To-morrow, forever,
    Free as an Arab!
    Of thy beloved.

The "open house," that is, the socialized house, depends upon this free mind to a degree only
second to that spirit of "good will to man," upon which it certainly must, like all institutions
in a democratic Christian nation, be based. This good will is only another name for neighborliness--the
spirit of friendly recognition of all those who come within one's radius. Neighborliness is
based upon the Christian and democratic proposition that all men are brothers--a proposition
with which the sects and parties of Christianity and democracy often play havoc. In their zeal
for an interpretation or system they sacrifice the very things they were devised to perpetuate
and extend among men. A sectarian or partisan household cannot be a genuinely neighborly household.
It has cut off too large a part of its source of supply.

The most perfect type of this spirit of neighborliness which we have worked out in this country,
outside of the thousands of little homes where it exists and of which, in the nature of the
case, only those who have felt their influence can know, is undoubtedly Hull House, the Chicago
Settlement under the direction of Jane Addams. Hull House is an "open house" for its neighborhood.
It is a place where men and women of all ages, conditions, and points of view are welcome.
So far as I have been able to discover, genuine freedom of mind and friendliness of spirit
are what have made Hull House possible and are what will decide its future after the day of
the great woman who has mothered it and about whom it revolves. There is no formula for building
a Hull House--any more than there is a home. Both are the florescence of a spirit and a mind.
Each will form itself according to the ideas, the tastes, and the cultivation of the individuality
at its center. Its activities will follow the peculiar needs which she has the brains and heart
to discover, the ingenuity and energy to meet.

Hull House serves its neighborhood, and in so doing it serves most fully its own household.
Its own members are the ones whose minds get the most illumination from its activities. Moreover,
Hull House from its first-hand sympathetic dealing with men and women in its neighborhood learns
the needs of the neighborhood. It is and for years has been a constant source of suggestion
and of agitation for the betterment of the conditions under which its neighbors--and indirectly
the whole city, even nation--live and work. Health, mind, morals, all are in its care. It is
practical in the plans it offers. It can back up its demands with knowledge founded on actual
contact. It can rally all of the enlightened and decent forces of the city to its help. Hull
House, indeed, is a very source of pure life in the great city where it belongs.

So far as attitude of mind and spirit go, the home should be to the little neighborhood in
which it works what Hull House is to its great field. In its essential structure it is the
same thing; i.e. Hull House is really modeled after the home. Most interesting is the parallel
between its organization and its activities and those of many a great home which we know through
the lives of their mistresses, that of Margaret Winthrop, of Eliza Pinckney, of Mrs. John Adams.

The social significance of Hull House is in its relative degree the possible social significance
of every home in this land. The realization depends entirely upon the conception the woman
in a particular house has of this side of her Business--whether or no she sees neighborliness
in this big sense. That she does not see it is too often due to the fact that even though she
may have "gone through college," she has no notion of society as a living structure made up
of various interdependent institutions, the first and foremost of which is a family or home.

