  The young person was dazzling with ornaments and beauty, and
the mother radiant with joy at the idea of the honor destined for her daughter.  I saw well
that she imagined the Emperor could not fail to be captivated by so many charms, and that he
would be seized with a great passion; but all this was only a dream, for the Emperor was amorous
only when all things suited.  However, we arrived at Saint-Cloud at eleven o'clock, and entered
the chateau by the orangery, for fear of indiscreet eyes.  As I had a pass-key to all the gates
of the chateau, I conducted her into the Emperor's apartments without being seen by any one,
where she remained about three hours.  At the end of this time I escorted her to her home,
taking the same precautions on leaving the chateau.

This young person, whom the Emperor had since seen three or four times at most, also came to
Fontainebleau, accompanied by her mother; but, being unable to see his Majesty, this lady,
like the Countess Walewska, determined to make the voyage to the Island of Elba, where it is
said the Emperor married Mademoiselle L---- to a colonel of artillery.

What I have just written has carried me back almost unconsciously to happier times.  It is
necessary, however, to return to the sad stay at Fontainebleau; and, after what I have said
of the dejection in which the Emperor lived, it is not surprising that, overwhelmed by such
crushing blows, his mind was not disposed to gallantry.  It seems to me I can still see the
evidences of the gloomy melancholy which devoured him; and in the midst of so many sorrows
the kindness of heart of the man seemed to increase in proportion to the sufferings of the
dethroned sovereign. With what amenity he spoke to us in these last days!  He then frequently
deigned to question me as to what was said of recent events.  With my usual artless candor
I related to him exactly what I had heard; and I remember that one day, having told him I had
heard many persons remark that the continuation of the last wars which had been so fatal to
us was generally attributed to the Duke of Bassano, "They do poor Maret gross injustice," said
he.  "They accuse him wrongfully.  He has never done anything but execute orders which I gave."
Then, according to his usual habit, when he had spoken to me a moment of these serious affairs,
he added, "What a shame! what humiliation!  To think that I should have in my very palace itself
a lot of foreign emissaries!"

CHAPTER XXVIII.

After the 12th of April there remained with the Emperor, of all the great personages who usually
surrounded him, only the grand marshal of the palace and Count Drouot.  The destination reserved
for the Emperor, and the fact that he had accepted it, was not long a secret in the palace.
On the 16th we witnessed the arrival of the commissioners of the allies deputed to accompany
his Majesty to the place of his embarkment for the Island of Elba.  These were Count Schuwaloff,
aide-de-camp of the Emperor Alexander from Russia; Colonel Neil Campbell  from England; General
Kohler from Austria; and finally Count of Waldburg-Truchsess for Prussia. Although his Majesty
had himself demanded that he should be accompanied by these four commissioners, their presence
at Fontainebleau seemed to make a most disagreeable impression on him.  However, each of these
gentlemen received from the Emperor a different welcome; and after a few words that I heard
his Majesty say, I was convinced on this, as on many previous occasions, that he esteemed the
English far more than all his other enemies, and Colonel Campbell was, therefore, welcomed
with more distinction than the other ministers; while the ill-humor of the Emperor vented itself
especially on the commissioner of the King of Prussia, who took no notice of it, and put on
the best possible countenance.

With the exception of the very slight apparent change made at Fontainebleau by the presence
of these gentlemen, no remarkable incident, none at least in my knowledge, came to disturb
the sad and monotonous life of the Emperor in the palace.  Everything remained gloomy and silent
among the inhabitants of this last imperial residence; but, nevertheless, the Emperor personally
seemed to me more calm since he had come to a definite conclusion than at the time he was wavering
in painful indecision.  He spoke sometimes in my presence of the Empress and his son, but not
as often as might have been expected.  But one thing which struck me deeply was, that never
a single time did a a word escape his lips which could recall the act of desperation of the
night of the 11th, which fortunately, as we have seen, had not the fatal results we feared.
What a night!  What a night!  In my whole life since I have never been able to think of it
without shuddering.

After the arrival of the commissioners of the allied powers, the Emperor seemed by degrees
to acclimate himself, so to speak, to their presence; and the chief occupation of the whole
household consisted of duties relating to our preparations for departure.  One day, as I was
dressing his Majesty, he said to me smiling, "Ah, well, my son, prepare your cart; we will
go and plant our cabbages."  Alas!  I was very far from thinking, as I heard these familiar
words of his Majesty, that by an inconceivable concurrence of events, I should be forced to
yield to an inexplicable fatality, which did not will that in spite of my ardent desire I should
accompany the Emperor to his place of exile.

The evening before the day fixed for our departure the grand marshal of the palace had me called.
After giving me some orders relative to the voyage, he said to me that the Emperor wished to
know what was the sum of money I had in charge for him.  I immediately gave an account to the
grand marshal; and he saw that the sum total was about three hundred thousand francs, including
the gold in a bog which Baron Fain had sent me, since he would not be on the journey.  The
grand marshal said he would present the account to the Emperor.  An hour after he again summoned
me, and said that his Majesty thought he had one hundred thousand francs more.  I replied that
I had in my possession one hundred thousand francs, which the Emperor had presented to me,
telling me to bury it in my garden; in fact, I related to him all the particulars I have described
above, and begged him to inquire of the Emperor if it was these one hundred thousand francs
to which his Majesty referred.  Count Bertrand promised to do this, and I then made the great
mistake of not addressing myself directly to the Emperor.  Nothing would have been easier in
my position; and I had often found that it was always better, when possible, to go directly
to him than to have recourse to any intermediate person whatever.  It would have been much
better for me to act thus, since, if the Emperor had demanded the one hundred thousand francs
which he had given me, which, after all, was hardly possible, I was more than disposed to restore
them to him without a moment's hesitation.  My astonishment may be imagined when the grand
marshal reported to me that the Emperor did not remember having given me the sum in question.
I instantly became crimson with anger.  What!  the Emperor had allowed it to be believed by
Count Bertrand that I had attempted-- I, his faithful servant--to appropriate a sum which he
had given me under all the circumstances I have related!  I was beside myself at this thought.
I left in a state impossible to be described, assuring the grand marshal that in an hour at
most I would restore to him the fatal present of his Majesty.

While rapidly crossing the court of the palace I met M. de Turenne, to whom I related all that
had occurred.  "That does not astonish me," he replied, "and we will see many other similar
cases."  A prey to a sort of moral fever, my head distracted, my heart oppressed, I sought
Denis, the wardrobe boy, of whom I have spoken previously; I found him most fortunately, and
hastened with him to my country place; and God is my witness that the loss of the hundred thousand
francs was not the cause of my distress, and I hardly thought of it.  As on the first occasion,
we passed along the side of the woods in order not to be seen; and began to dig up the earth
to find the money we had placed there; and in the eagerness with which I hunted for this miserable
gold, in order to restore it to the grand marshal, I dug up more than was necessary.  I cannot
describe my despair when I saw that we had found nothing; I thought that some one had seen
and followed us, in fact, that I had been robbed.  This was a more crushing blow to me than
the first, and I foresaw the consequences with horror; what would be said, what would be thought,
of me?  Would my word be taken?  The grand marshal, already prejudiced by the inexplicable
reply of the Emperor, would consider me a person totally devoid of honor.  I was overwhelmed
by these fatal thoughts when Denis suggested to me that we had not dug in the right spot, and
had made a mistake of some feet.  I eagerly embraced this ray of hope; we began again to dig
up the earth with more eagerness than ever, and I can say without exaggeration that my joy
bordered almost on delirium when I saw the first of the bags.  We drew out in succession all
the five; and with the assistance of Denis I carried them to the palace, and placed them without
delay in the hands of the grand marshal, with the keys of the Emperor's trunk, and the casket
which M. Fain had committed to me.  I said to him as I left, "Monseigneur, be good enough to
say to his Majesty that I will not accompany him."--"I will tell him."

After this cold and laconic reply I immediately left the palace, and was soon after in Rue
du Coq-Gris, with M. Clement, a bailiff, who for a long time had been charged with my small
affairs, and had given the necessary attention to my farm during the long absences which the
journeys and campaigns of the Emperor necessitated.  Then I gave full vent to my despair. 
I was choking with rage as I remembered that my honesty had been suspected,--I, who for fourteen
years had served the Emperor with a disinterestedness which was so scrupulous, and even carried
to such a point that many persons called it silliness; I, who had never demanded anything of
the Emperor, either for myself or my people!  My brain reeled as I tried to explain to myself
how the Emperor, who knew all this so well, could have allowed me to appear to a third person
as a dishonorable man; the more I thought of it the more extreme became my irritation, and
yet it was not possible to find the shadow of a motive for the blow aimed at me.  My despair
was at its height, when M. Hubert, ordinary valet de chambre of the Emperor, came to tell me
that his Majesty would give me all I wished if I would follow him, and that three hundred thousand
francs would be immediately handed me.  In these circumstances, I ask of all honest men, what
could I do, and what would they have done in my place?  I replied that when I had resolved
to consecrate my whole life to the service of the unfortunate Emperor, it was not from views
of vile interest; but I was in despair at the thought that he should have made me appear before
Count Bertrand as an impostor and a dishonest man.  Ah! how happy would it then have been for
me had the Emperor never thought of giving me those accursed one hundred thousand francs! 
These ideas tortured me.  Ah! if I could only have taken twenty-four hours for reflection,
however just might have been my resentment, how gladly would I have sacrificed it!  I would
have thought of the Emperor alone, and would have followed him; but a sad and inexplicable
fatality had not decreed this.

This took place on the 19th of April, the most miserable day of my life. What an evening, what
a night I passed!  What was my grief on learning the next day that the Emperor had departed
at noon, after making his adieux to his guard!  When I awoke that morning, all my resentment
had been appeased in thinking of the Emperor.  Twenty times I wished to return to the palace;
twenty times after his departure I wished to take post horses and overtake him; but I was deterred
by the offer he had made me through M. Hubert.  "Perhaps," I thought, "he will think it is
the money which influences me; this will, doubtless, be said by those around him; and what
an opinion he will have of me!"  In this cruel perplexity I did not dare to decide.  I suffered
all that it is possible for a man to suffer; and, at times, that which was only too true seemed
like a dream to me, so impossible did it seem that I could be where the Emperor was not.  Everything
in this terrible situation contributed to aggravate my distress.  I knew the Emperor well enough
to be aware that even had I returned to him then, he would never have forgotten that I had
wished to leave him; I felt that I had not the strength to bear this reproach from his lips.
On the other side, the physical suffering caused by my disease had greatly increased, and I
was compelled to remain in bed a long while. I could, indeed, have triumphed over these physical
sufferings however cruel they might have been, but in the frightful complications of my position
I was reduced to a condition of idiocy; I saw nothing of what was around me; I heard nothing
of what was said; and after this statement the reader will surely not expect that I shall have
anything to say about the farewell of the Emperor to his old and faithful guard, an account
of which, moreover, has been often enough published for the facts to be well known concerning
this event, which, besides, took place in public.  Here my Memoirs might well close; but the
reader, I well believe, cannot refuse me his attention a few moments longer, that I may recall
some facts which I have a right to explain, and to relate some incidents concerning the return
from the Island of Elba.  I, therefore, now continue my remarks on the first of these heads,
and the second will be the subject of the next chapter.

The Emperor had then already started; and as for myself, shut up alone, my country house became
henceforth a sad residence to me.  I held no communication with any one whatever, read no news,
and sought to learn none.  At the end of a short time I received a visit from one of my friends
from Paris, who said to me that the journals spoke of my conduct without understanding it,
and that they condemned it severely.  He added that it was M. de Turenne who had sent to the
editors the note in which I had been so heavily censured.  I must say that I did not believe
this; I knew M. de Turenne too well to think him capable of a proceeding so dishonorable, inasmuch
as I had frankly explained everything to him, when he made the answer I gave above.  But however
the evil came, it was nevertheless done; and by the incredible complications of my position
I found myself compelled to keep silence.  Nothing certainly would have been easier than to
repel the calumny by an exact rehearsal of the facts; but should I justify myself in this manner
by, so to speak, accusing the Emperor at a moment especially when the Emperor's enemies manifested
much bitterness?  When I saw such a great man made a mark for the shafts of calumny, I, who
was so contemptible and insignificant among the crowd, could surely allow a few of these envenomed
shafts to fall on me.  To-day the time has come to tell the truth, and I have done so without
restriction; not to excuse myself, for on the contrary I blame myself for not having completely
sacrificed myself, and for not having accompanied the Emperor to the Island of Elba regardless
of what might have been said.  Nevertheless, I may be allowed to say in my own defense, that
in this combination of physical and mental sufferings which overwhelmed me all at once, a person
must be very sure of infallibility himself to condemn completely this sensitiveness so natural
in a man of honor when accused of a fraudulent transaction.  This, then, I said to myself,
is the recompense for all my care, for the endurance of so much suffering, for unbounded devotion,
and a refinement of feeling for which the Emperor had often praised me, and for which he rendered
me justice later, as will be seen when I shall have occasion to speak of certain circumstances
occurring about the 20th of March of the following year.

But gratuitously, and even malevolently, interested motives have been attributed to me for
the decision I made to leave the Emperor.  The simplest common-sense, on the contrary, would
suffice to see that, had I allowed myself to be guided by my interests, everything would have
influenced me to accompany his Majesty.  In fact, the chagrin which the incident I have mentioned
caused me, and the manner in which I was completely overwhelmed by it, have injured my fortune
more than any determination to follow the Emperor could possibly have done.  What could I hope
for in France, where I had no right to anything?  Is it not, besides, very evident to whoever
would recall my position, which was one of confidence near the Emperor, that, if I had been
actuated by a love of money, this position would have given me an opportunity to reap an abundant
harvest without injuring my reputation; but my disinterestedness was so well known that, whatever
may be said to the contrary, I can assert that during the whole time my favor with the Emperor
continued, I on no occasion used it to render any other but unselfish services, and often I
refused to support a demand for the sole reason that the petition had been accompanied by offers
of money, which were often of very considerable amount.  Allow me to cite one example among
many others of the same nature.  I received one day an offer of the sum of four hundred thousand
francs, which was made me by a lady of a very noble family, if I would influence the Emperor
to consider favorably a petition in which she claimed indemnity for a piece of property belonging
to her, on which the port of Bayonne had been constructed.  I had succeeded in obtaining favorable
answers to applications more difficult than this, but I refused to agree to support her petition
solely on account of the offer which had been made to me; I would have been glad to oblige
this lady, but only for the pleasure of being obliging, and it was for this reason alone I
allowed myself to solicit of the Emperor the pardons which he nearly always granted. Only made
one trifling mistake. Said that tea-roses belonged to the cactus family. Fancy they don't, but
am not sure. The suggestion that cucumbers were dug out of the ground like potatoes, was only
an error of judgment. Anyone might have made it.

But although rusty in his science, he is well up in machine-gun drill. He will suit the expedition
to a nicety. Artillery, Cavalry, and Infantry in first-rate condition.

Later still.--Made our first important scientific discovery to-day. Find that you can't grow
broad beans on the soil at the base of the Ironice Mountains. At least you may plant them, but
they won't grow to any size within the space of half-a-dozen hours. Tried the experiment. To clear
the necessary space of ground, had to remove the natives. Did this in gallant style with the
assistance of all branches of the Service. The Professor rendered valuable support with his
Gatling. Hadn't time to bury the kilted, but said some kind things, when bidding them adieu,
to the wounded.

Further on.--Most anxious to discover whether canaries sing half-way
up the Ironice Mountains.

Had some little trouble in establishing a footing on the plateau. After eight hours' hard fighting
got to the required spot. The natives seem to have no respect for scientific research. Had to remove
them in the usual fashion. The Cavalry had to abandon their horses, but the dismounted men
were most useful in burning villages. The Professor continued to carry up his Gatling, and used
it with the customary result. When we got to the plateau, disappointed
to find no canaries. So we could not ascertain whether they would
sing at that altitude. However, when we have completed the proposed
railway, it will be quite easy to bring up a few of those charming
birds, and continue the interesting experiment.  I thought it best suited my former position to live in retirement, and passed my
time most tranquilly in the bosom of my family in the country-house belonging to me.  At the
same time a fatal idea preoccupied my mind involuntarily; for I feared that persons who were
jealous of my former favor might succeed in deceiving the Emperor as to my unalterable devotion
to his person, and strengthen in his mind the false opinion that they had for a time succeeded
in giving him of me.  This opinion, although my conscience told me that it was unjust, was
not the less painful to me; but, as will soon be seen, I was fortunate enough to obtain the
certainty that my fears in this respect were without foundation.

Although an entire stranger to politics, I had read with deep interest the newspapers I received
in my retreat, since the great political change to which the name of the Restoration was given;
and it seemed to me to need only the simplest common-sense to see the marked difference which
existed between the government which had been overthrown and the new.  In all departments I
saw a succession of titled men take the places of the long list of distinguished men who had
given under the Empire so many proofs of merit and courage; but I was far from thinking, notwithstanding
the large number of discontented, that the fortunes of the Emperor and the wishes of the army
would ever restore him to that throne which he had voluntarily abdicated in order that he might
not be the cause of a civil war in Dance.  Therefore, it would be impossible to describe my
astonishment, and the multiplicity of varied feelings which agitated me, when I received the
first news of the landing of the Emperor on the coast of Provence.  I read with enthusiasm
the admirable proclamation in which he announced that his eagles would fly from steeple to
steeple, and that he himself would follow so closely in his triumphal march from the Bay of
Juan to Paris.

Here I must make a confession, which is, that only since I had left the Emperor, had I fully
comprehended the immensity of his greatness. Attached to his service almost from the beginning
of the Consulate, at a time when I was still very young, he had grown, so to speak, without
my having perceived it, and I had above all seen in him, from the nature of my duties, the
excellent master rather than the great man; consequently, in this instance the effects of distance
were very different from what it usually produces.  It was with difficulty I could realize,
and I am often astonished to-day in recalling the frank candor with which I had dared to defend
to the Emperor what I knew to be the truth; his kindness, however, seemed to encourage me in
this, for often, instead of becoming irritated by my vehemence, he said to me gently, with
a benevolent smile, "Come, come!  M. Constant, don't excite yourself."  Adorable kindness in
a man of such elevated rank!  Ah, well I this was the only impression it made on me in the
privacy of his chamber, but since then I have learned to estimate it at its true value.

On learning that the Emperor was to be restored to us, my first impulse was to repair at once
to the palace, that I might be there on his arrival; but more mature reflection and the advice
of my family made me realize that it would be more suitable for me to await his orders, in
case he wished to recall me to my former service.  I congratulated myself on deciding to take
the latter course, since I had the happiness to learn that his Majesty had been kind enough
to express his approval of my former conduct.  I learned from most reliable authority, that
he had hardly arrived at the Tuileries, when he condescended to inquire of M. Eible, then concierge
of the palace, "Well, what is Constant doing?  How is he succeeding?  Where is he?"--"Sire,
he is at his country-place, which he has not left."--"Ah, very good.  He is happy raising his
cabbages."  I learned also that, during the first days of the Emperor's return, his Majesty
had been investigating the list of pensions, and had been good enough to make a note that mine
should be increased.  Finally, I experienced an intense satisfaction of another kind, no doubt,
but none the less sincere in the certainty of not being considered an ingrate. I have stated
that I had been fortunate enough to procure a position for M. Marchand with the Emperor; and
this is what was related to me by an eye-witness.  M. Marchand, in the beginning of the Hundred
Days, happened to be in one of the saloons of the palace of the Tuileries, where several persons
were assembled, and some of them were expressing themselves most unkindly in regard to me.
My successor with the Emperor interrupted them brusquely, saying that there was not a word
of truth in the calumnies which were asserted of me; and added that, while I held the position,
I had uniformly been most obliging to all persons of the household who had addressed themselves
to me, and had done no injury to any one.  In this respect I can affirm that M. Marchand told
only the truth; but I was none the less deeply grateful to him for so honorably defending me,
especially in my absence.

Not being in Paris on the 20th of March, 1815, as we have just seen, I could have nothing to
say of the circumstances of this memorable epoch, had I not collected from some of my friends
particulars of what occurred on the night following the re-entrance of the Emperor into the
palace, once again become Imperial; and it may be imagined how eager I was to know everything
relating to the great man whom we regarded at this moment as the savior of France.

I will begin by repeating exactly the account which was given me by one of my friends, a brave
and excellent man, at that time sergeant in the National Guard of Paris, who happened to be
on duty at the Tuileries exactly on the 20th of March.  "At noon," he said, "three companies
of National Guards entered the court of the Tuileries, to occupy all the interior and exterior
posts of the palace.  I belonged to one of these companies, which formed a part of the fourth
legion.  My comrades and I were struck with the inexpressible sadness produced by the sight
of an abandoned palace.  Everything, in fact, was deserted.  Only a few men were seen here
and there in the livery of the king, occupied in taking down and removing portraits of the
various members of the Bourbon family. Outside could be heard the clamorous shouts of a frantic
mob, who climbed on the gates, tried to scale them, and pressed against them with such force
that at last they bent in several places so far that it was feared they would be thrown down.
This multitude of people presented a frightful spectacle, and seemed as if determined to pillage
the palace.

"Hardly a quarter of an hour after we entered the interior court an accident occurred which,
though not serious in itself, threw consternation into our ranks, as well as among those who
were pressing against the grating of the Carrousel.  We saw flames issuing from the chimney
of the King's apartments, which had been accidentally set on fire by a quantity of papers which
had just been burned therein.  This accident gave rise to most sinister conjectures, and soon
the rumor spread that the Tuileries had been undermined ready for an explosion before the departure
of Louis XVIII.  A patrol was immediately formed of fifteen men of the National Guard, commanded
by a sergeant; they explored the chateau most thoroughly, visited each apartment, descended
into the cellars, and assured themselves that there was nowhere the slightest indication of danger.

"Reassured on this point, we were nevertheless not without anxiety.  In returning to our posts
we had heard numerous groups shouting, 'Vive le Roi!  Vivent les Bourbons!' and we soon had
proofs of the exasperation and fury of a part of the people against Napoleon; for we witnessed
the arrival in our midst, in a most pitiable condition, of a superior officer who had imprudently
donned too soon the tricolored cockade, and consequently had been pursued by the mob from the
Rue Saint-Denis.  We took him under our protection, and made him enter the interior of the
palace, as he was almost exhausted.  At this moment we received orders to force the people
to withdraw, as they had become still more determined to scale the gates; and in order to accomplish
this we were compelled to have recourse to arms.

"We had occupied the post at the Tuileries an hour at most when General Excelmans,  who had
received the chief command of the guard at the chateau, gave orders to raise the tricolored
banner over the middle pavilion.

"The reappearance of the national colors excited among us all emotions of the most intense
satisfaction; and immediately the populace substituted the cry of 'Vive l'Empereur' for that
of 'Vive le Roi,' and nothing else was heard the whole day.  As for us, when we were ordered
to don the tricolored cockade it was a very easy performance, as a large number of the guard
had preserved their old ones, which they had simply covered with a piece of white cambric.
We were ordered to stack arms in front of the arch of triumph, and nothing extraordinary occurred
until six o'clock; then lights began to shine on the expected route of the Emperor, and a large
number of officers on half pay collected near the pavilion of Flora; and I learned from one
of them, M. Saunier, a decorated officer, that it was on that side the Emperor would re-enter
the palace of the Tuileries.  I repaired there in all haste; and as I was hurrying to place
myself on his route, I was so fortunate as to meet a commanding officer, who assigned me to
duty at the very door of Napoleon's apartment, and to this circumstance I owe the fact that
I witnessed what now remains to be related.

"I had for some time remained in expectation, and in almost perfect solitude, when, at fifteen
minutes before nine, an extraordinary noise that I heard outside announced to me the Emperor's
arrival; and a few moments after I saw him appear, amidst cries of enthusiasm, borne on the
arms of the officers who had escorted him from the island of Elba.  The Emperor begged them
earnestly to let him walk; but his entreaties were useless, and they bore him thus to the very
door of his apartment, where they deposited him near me.  I had not seen the Emperor since
the day of his farewell to the National Guard in the great court of the palace; and in spite
of the great agitation into which I was thrown by all this commotion, I could not help noticing
how much stouter he had become.

