Sylvia understood now why Esmeralda had been so anxious to place this guest in the most comfortable
chair, and had waited on her with such assiduous care; she understood, too, why the Duchess
herself wore an expression of patient resignation, and cast surreptitious glances at the clock.
Poor creature, these so-called amusements were the business of her life, and one was so much
like another that it was impossible to get up any feeling of interest, much less amusement.
She yawned behind her glove, and vouchsafed the briefest of answers to her companions; it was
abundantly evident, in short, that the Duchess was bored, and as this was the first time that
she had honoured his house by a visit, Geoffrey was naturally anxious that this state of things
should not continue. Esmeralda had done her utmost, but her airs and graces had failed to make
any impression on one who had been acquainted with the beauties of the last fifty years, and
there seemed no one present who possessed the requisite qualities to help him out of his difficulty.
The Duchess was already acquainted with every visitor of note, and would not care to be introduced
to insignificant nonentities.

Stay, though!  What of the most insignificant of his guests?  What of Pixie O'Shaughnessy,
of the ready tongue, and the audacious self- confidence, which would flourish unchecked in
the presence of kings and emperors?  "Pixie for ever!  Pixie to the rescue!" cried Geoffrey
to himself, and promptly stole across to the room set apart for refreshments, where his small
sister-in-law sat eating her fourth ice, waited upon with assiduous care by her friend Montgomery.

"Pixie," he said, "there's an old lady in black sitting under the big palm in the yellow drawing-room
and looking dreadfully bored!  Just go and talk to her like a good girl, and see if you can
amuse her a little bit before she goes."

"I will so!" responded Pixie heartily.  "It's a very dull party when there's nothing to do
but be pleasant.  I was bored myself, before I began to eat.  I'll leave the ice now, but maybe
I'll venture on another by and by.--In black, you said, under the palm?"

She flicked a lapful of crumbs on to the floor, and pranced away with her light, dancing step.
Geoffrey watched her from the doorway, saw her squeeze herself into the corner of the lounge
on which the Duchess was seated, and gaze into her face with the broadest of broad beaming
smiles, while the great lady, in her turn, put up a lorgnon and stared back in amazed curiosity.

"Well, little girl," said the Duchess, smiling, "and what have you got to say?"

"Plenty, thank you!  I always have.  Me difficulty is to find someone to listen!" replied Miss
Pixie, with a confidential nod.

The old lady looked extraordinarily thin; the lines on her face crossed and re-crossed like
the most intricate puzzle, her lips were sunken, and the tips of nose and chin were at perilously
close quarters, but her eyes were young still, such sharp, bright little eyes, and they twinkled
just as Pat's did when he was pleased.

"Talk to me, then.  I'll stop you when I'm bored!" she said, and at that Pixie nodded once again.

"Of course.  We always do.  Jack stamps on me foot, and Pat snores, the same as if he were
asleep.  He says he is strong enough to hear a tale six times over, but he won't listen to
it a seventh, to please man nor woman.  Bridgie says jokes are one of the trials of family
life, because by the time you've improved the points so that no one would recognise them for
the same, your relations won't give you a hearing.  It's a curious thing, when you think of
it, that you get so exhausted with other people's stories, while you go on laughing at your
own.  Bridgie says you'll find fifty people to cry with you, for one who will sympathise about
jokes.  Have you found it that way in your experience?"

"Upon my word," cried the Duchess with unction, "this Bridgie appears to be a remarkably sensible
young woman!  My experience has been that I rarely meet a joke that is not my own exclusive
property, to judge by the faces of my companions.  Do you happen to possess a name, my youthful
philosopher?  I should like to know to whom I am talking."

"I'm Pixie O'Shaughnessy, and Geoffrey married my sister Esmeralda.  He came over to Ireland
and fell in love with her in spite of me telling him about her bad temper, thinking of course
that he was a perfect stranger.  I apologised to him after it was settled and said there was
nothing really wrong with her, for she'd always rather be pleasant than not, only at times
it's easier to be nasty, and she's been lazy from her youth.  The night they met they mistook
each other for ghosts, and Esmeralda clung to his arm and screeched for help.

"There was never a thing that girl was frightened at, all her life, until now, and, would you
believe it?--it's her own servants!  Of course in Ireland they were like friends, as free and
easy as we were ourselves, and entering into the conversation at table; but Geoffrey's Englishmen
are so solemn and proper that she lives in terror of shocking their feelings.  One day the
butler found her kissing Geoffrey, believing they were alone, and she waited for him to say,
`Allow me, madam!' as he always does if she ventures to do a hand's turn for herself.  She's
says it's dispiriting to think you can't even quarrel in peace for fear of interruption, and
it takes a good deal to interrupt Esmeralda when once she's started."

The Duchess screwed up her bright little eyes, and her shoulders shook beneath her black lace
cape.  Sylvia and her companion, watching the strangely assorted pair from across the room,
saw Pixie move nearer and nearer, and whisper a long dramatic history; saw the Duchess nod
her head in appreciation of the various points, and heard the burst of laughter which greeted
the denouement.  Everyone stopped talking and stared with inquiring eyes.  Esmeralda turned
towards the lounge, anxiety thinly disguised by smiles, and, seeing her, the Duchess rose from
her seat with a sigh of regret.

"Your sister is a born story-teller, Mrs Hilliard.  I wish I had more time to listen. "Do you know,"
said he, "that Constable has many such bills abroad--Sir Walter,
I warn you."--"Well," answered Sir Walter, "it is, perhaps, as you
say, and I thank you; but," raising his voice, "Archie Constable was
a good friend to me when friends were rarer than now, and I will not
see him balked for the sake of a few thousand pounds."

The amount of the sum for which Scott, on the failure of Constable, became responsible, I have
heard various accounts of--varying from fifty to seventy thousand
pounds.

Some generous and wealthy person sent him a blank check, properly signed, upon the bank, desiring
him to fill in the sum, and relieve himself; but he returned it,
with proper acknowledgments.

He took, as it were, the debt upon himself, as a loan, the whole payable, with interest, in ten
years; and to work he went, with head, and heart, and hand, to amend his broken fortunes. I had
several letters from him during these disastrous days: the language
was cheerful, and there were no allusions to what had happened.

It is true, there was no occasion for him to mention these occurrences to me: all that he said
about them was--"I miss my daughter, Mrs. Lockhart, who used to sing to me; I have some need
of her now." No general, after a bloody and disastrous battle, ever set about preparing himself for
a more successful contest than did this distinguished man. Work succeeded work with unheard
of rapidity; the chief of which was, "The Life of Napoleon Bonaparte," in nine volumes--a production
of singular power, and an almost perfect work, with the exception
of the parts which treat of the French Revolution, and the captivity
of the great prisoner.

I had the curiosity, on seeing one of the reviews praising Hazlitt's description of the Battle of
the Pyramid's, to turn to the account of Scott. I need not say which was best: Scott's was like
the sounding of a trumpet. The present cheap and truly elegant edition of the works of the author
of "Waverley" has, with its deservedly unrivalled sale, relieved the poet from his difficulties,
and the cloud which hung so long over the towers of Abbotsford has given place to sunshine.

Of Abbotsford itself, the best description ever given, at least the
briefest, was "A Romance in stone and lime."

It would require a volume to describe all the curiosities, ancient
and modern, living and dead, which are here gathered together;--I
say living, because a menagerie might be formed out of birds and beasts,
sent as presents from distant lands.

A friend told me he was at Abbotsford one evening, when a servant announced, "A present from"--I
forget what chieftain in the North.--"Bring it in," said the poet.

  She was in no hurry to break the seal, however,
for it was so pleasant just to hold the letter in her hand, and lean back comfortably against
the cushions, and dream.

The dreams, it is true, were mostly concerned with the events of the afternoon, and Mollie
Burrell's intent and kindly scrutiny; but it was like the old times when she had thought her
own thoughts with her hand clasped in that of the dear old dad, and the touch of the sheet
on which his fingers had rested brought back the old feeling of strength and security.  She
had told him much about her new friends, and he seemed always to wish to hear more, asking
carefully veiled questions, the meaning of which were perfectly understood by his shrewd little
daughter.

Dad was anxious about this friendship with a family which included a handsome grown-up son
among its members; a trifle afraid lest she should be spirited away to another home before
he had enjoyed his own innings.

"Poor old darling!" murmured Sylvia remorsefully, for at the bottom of her heart she knew well
which home she would choose if the choice were given, and it did seem hard--horribly hard--that
a parent should love and guard and work for his child from the hour of her birth, and that
when she had grown old and sensible enough to be a companion instead of a care, she should
immediately desert him for another!  "But I could never love dad any less, never, never!  I'd
give anything in the world to see him again!"  Sylvia cried mentally as she opened the envelope
and straightened the thin, foreign sheets.

It was a long letter, and took a long time to read, and in the process Sylvia's expression
changed once and again, and finally settled into one of incredulous dismay.  It was not that
the news was bad; on the contrary, it was good--very good indeed--the thing above all others
which she would have wished to hear, but it threatened a complete uprooting of her life just
as it was growing most interesting, and full of possibilities.  Dad was coming home, was even
now on his way, and had desired her to meet him on his arrival at Marseilles.  It was incredible,
quite incredible in its startling unexpectedness.  She turned again to the wonderful paragraph,
and read it over once more slowly and carefully.

  "And now, my darling, I have a piece of news, which I hope and believe
  will be welcome to you.  Certain business changes have taken place of
  late, which you would not understand even if I tried to explain them,
  but such as they are they set me free to return home at my own
  convenience.  I have been impatiently waiting this settlement of
  affairs for some time back, as I have been most anxious to see you
  after your long illness, and to satisfy myself that the best means are
  being used to restore the full use of your foot.

  "I have made inquiries here, and believe that a course of baths of the
  German Spa B--- would probably put the final touch to what has already
  been done.  I propose, therefore, that you engage in good time a
  trustworthy lady courier from an office in London, and travel in her
  company to Marseilles, where I will meet you in the first week of
  June, having previously spent a week or ten days in Italy with my old
  friends the Nisbets, who return in the same boat.

  "Come prepared for a summer abroad, and we can fit you up with any
  extras that are needed before we start on our travels.  After you have
  finished your course of treatment and are, I trust, thoroughly
  convalescent, we will have a tour through Switzerland, and settle down
  at some mountain hotel, where the air will brace us up after our
  sufferings, climatic and otherwise.

  "For the future, I have as yet no definite plans, except that, of
  course, you will not return to your present quarters.  Perhaps we may
  eventually find a house that suits us in the south of England, but I
  can't face English winters after my long residence in this sunny land,
  and you must make up your mind to humour a restless old Anglo-Indian
  for the next few years to come.  Perhaps by that time I may have
  regained my old strength and nerve, which have sadly failed of late.
  I will wire from Brindisi as to definite arrangements."

Sylvia let the letter drop on her lap, and stared before her with blank eyes.  Through the
curtains could be seen a glimpse of the house opposite, the blind at Bridgie's window drawn
up at its usual rakish angle.

In three weeks, in less than three weeks, she would say good-bye for ever to Rutland Road and
its inhabitants; good-bye to England itself, it appeared, for at least a year to come, and
at two-and-twenty a year is as long as a lifetime, if it divides us from those we love.  She
would drift away out of sight, and the last six months would become but an episode in her own
life and those of her friends.

"D'ye remember Sylvia,--the girl with the bark on the road?"  In imagination she could hear
Pixie putting the question in the years to come, and Bridgie would remember quite well, because
she had not the faculty of forgetting, but other people--other people were reputedly fickle,
and tempted to forget old friends in favour of new!  Other people would probably be in love
with a fair-haired beauty by that time, and have forgotten all about Sylvia Trevor!

The pain which shot through the girl's heart at these reflections was so sharp that it startled
her into a realisation of her own position.  Dad was coming home, she was going to live with
him once more, and instead of being happy and elated she was miserable--miserable!  She was
going to leave her aunt's home, with the restrictions and lack of sympathy which had made it
so trying, and was once more to live with the fondest and most indulgent of parents, and instead
of filling her with delight the news seemed like a sentence of banishment from all that made
life worth living!

To do Sylvia justice she was shocked at her own thoughts, and made a valiant effort to look
at the prospect in a more dutiful spirit.  At least, she determined, no one should suspect
a want of loyalty to that best and kindest of men!  Aunt Margaret would take for granted that
she felt nothing but delight, and she would postpone breaking the news to Bridgie until she
had grown accustomed to the idea of separation, and could discuss it with composure.

It would be easier than usual to keep this resolve, for since Esmeralda's arrival the neighbours
necessarily saw less of each other than in the long winter days when there had been no rival
claims on their time and attention.  Aunt Margaret would be pleased to find that she was chosen
as counsellor and adviser-in-chief, and during the short time which was left she must do her
utmost to gratify the old lady, who had been on the whole very kind and forbearing during the
two years which they had spent together.

"I wish I had been nicer to her!" sighed Sylvia regretfully.  "I was always meaning to be,
but now it's too late.  That's the worst of putting off things in this world; the chance may
never come again!"

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS.

A whole week passed by before Sylvia had an opportunity of telling her great news to her friend.
To begin with, Bridgie was absent from home for three days and nights, attending a ball and
a water-party given by Esmeralda for the entertainment of her house-party, and to neither of
which Sylvia had received an invitation.  To be sure, it was no use going to a dance when dancing
was an impossibility, and the getting in and out of boats would have been painful and difficult,
but all the same Sylvia felt slighted and out in the cold, and, though absent in the flesh,
mentally followed every stage in the two entertainments, and tortured herself by imagining
Jack's light-hearted enjoyment and absorption in other company than her own.

When Bridgie returned home, Miss Munns insisted on several expeditions to town, and also to
surrounding suburbs, where lived those family connections to whom it was clearly the girl's
duty to say good-bye.  The old lady was quite inclined to enjoy the little stir of preparation
involved by the trip abroad, and would allow no one but herself to interview the lady in whose
charge her niece was to travel.  That she was entirely satisfied was the best possible guarantee
for Sylvia's safety, and Mistress Courier Rickman promised to be ready to start the moment
the expected wire was received.

Miss Munns laid in a store of patent medicines, stocked her niece's workbox with every imaginable
useful, and waxed quite affectionate in her manner, but all the same it was easy to see that
she would be relieved to get rid of her charge, and settle down once more in the old groove.
It requires a great deal of forbearance and unselfish imagination to enable a young person
and an old to live together happily, and the lack of these qualities is the explanation of
many miserable homes.

Old people should remember that the peaceful monotony which has become their own idea of happiness,
must by the laws of nature spell a very different word to buoyant, restless youth, and also
that there comes a stage when the children are not children any longer, when they are entitled
to their own opinions, and may even--most reverently be it said--understand what is best for
themselves, better than those of a different generation; and the young people in their turn
should remember the long years of tender care and devotion which they have received, and be
infinitely patient in their turn.  They, who are so impatient of passing ailments, should try
to imagine how it would feel to be always feeble, and to see in the future the certainty of
growing more and more suffering and incapable.  They should realise that it is in their power
to make the sunshine of declining days, and thereby to store up for themselves a lasting joy,
instead of a reproach.

In looking back upon those two years spent in Rutland Road, Sylvia forgot her aunt's lack of
sympathy, her prosy talk, and repeated fault- finding; they were lost in remembering the true
kindness of heart which lay beneath all mannerism.  What she was never able to forget was her
own impatience and neglect of opportunity.

Once or twice as the days passed by, Bridgie O'Shaughnessy ran to the gate to intercept her
friend as she passed, and exchange a hurried greeting, but Sylvia would not trust her great
news to such occasions as these.  She waited until an opportunity arose for an uninterrupted
talk, and as she waited a desire awoke and grew in intensity, to herself tell Jack of the coming
separation.  Bridgie must, of course, be informed of the journey to France and Germany, but
she would wait until the evening of Esmeralda's reception before disclosing the full extent
of her travels.

When she and Jack were sitting together in one of the charming little niches in which the rooms
abounded, he would naturally begin to talk of her journey, and she would smile and look unconcerned,
and, in the most cheerful and natural of tones, announce that she was not coming back to Rutland
Road, that it would probably be a year at least before she saw England again.

Surely when he heard this for the first time, when it was burst upon him as an utter surprise,
she would read in his face whether she had been right in imagining that he really "cared,"
or if it had been a delusion born of girlish vanity.  She would be quite calm and serene, would
not in any way pose as a martyr or seem to expect any expression of distress, but she could
not--could not bring herself to go away without making this one innocent little effort to solve
the mystery which meant so much to her happiness and peace of mind.

So Sylvia purposely kept out of Bridgie's way during the ten days after the receipt of her
letter, and when they met it was easy to tell just what she chose, and keep silent about the
rest, for Bridgie was not one of the curious among womenkind, and never dreamt of questioning
and cross-questioning as to the plans of another.  She simply took for granted that Sylvia
would return to her old quarters, after a pleasant summer holiday, just as she was happily
assured that her friend felt nothing but purest joy and satisfaction in the prospect before her.

"Oh, me darling," she cried rapturously, "I am delighted for you!  Isn't that the very best
news that could happen?  So soon, too, and a lovely jaunt together in the beautiful summer
weather.  'Twill make you strong again in no time, and you will write me long letters telling
me all your adventures, and 'twill be almost as good as having them myself. The ancient Christians
divided the night into four watches, called the evening, midnight,
and two morning cock-crowings.

Their connexion with the belief in walking spirits will be remembered--

The cock crows, and the morn prows on, When 'tis decreed I must be
gone."--Butler.

--The tale Of horrid apparition, tall and ghastly,
That walks at dead of night, or takes his stand O'er some new-open'd
grave; and, strange to tell, Evanishes at crowing of the cock--Blair.

Dr. Forster observes--"There is this remarkable circumstance about
the crowing of cocks--they seem to keep night-watches, or to have
general crowing-matches, at certain periods--as, soon after twelve,
at two, and again at day-break.

These are the Alectrephones mentioned by St. John. To us, these cock-crowings do not appear quite
so regular in their times of occurrence, though they actually observe certain periods, when not interrupted
by the changes of the weather, which generally produce a great deal of crowing. Indeed, the song of all
birds is much influenced by the state of the air." Dr. F. also mentions, "that cocks began
to crow during the darkness of the eclipse of the sun, Sept. 4, 1820; and it seems that crepusculum
(or twilight) is the sort of light in which they crow most."

Goes of Liquor.

Why did tavern-keepers originally call portions of liquor "goes?"

Because of the following incident, which, though unimportant in itself, convinces us how much
custom is influenced by the most trifling occurrences:--The tavern called the Queen's Head,
in Duke's-court, Bow-street, was once kept by a facetious individual of the name of Jupp.
Two celebrated characters, Annesley Spay and Bob Todrington, a sporting man, meeting one evening
at the above place, went to the bar, and each asked for half a quartern
of spirits, with a little cold water.  Singers and musicians whose names were known throughout Europe
were to perform at intervals in the great drawing-room; the hall and staircase were to be transformed
into a bower of roses, pink La France roses here, there, and everywhere, wreathed round the
banisters, massed on the window-sills and mantelpieces, hanging in great golden baskets from
the ceiling.  Rose- coloured shades were to soften the glare of the electric lights; the air
was to be kept cool by great blocks of ice, and scented fountains rising from banks of moss
and ferns; the conservatory was to be illuminated by jewelled lanterns.

It sounded like a fairy-tale to the girl in the unfashionable suburb, and she would have been
less than human if she had not counted the hours which must elapse before the evening arrived.
Bridgie thought it a pity that the guests could not be labelled for the edification of the
unsophisticated, but Sylvia's greatest interest was centred on figures which were too familiar
to be mistaken.  The whole entertainment was, in truth, but a gorgeous setting to that conversation
with Jack, which might be their last tete-a-tete for so long to come.

The dressmaker who was preparing Miss Trevor's dress for the great occasion had seldom had
more difficulty in satisfying an employer, and the sum total expended on fineries would have
horrified Miss Munns if she had been allowed to see the bills.  Even Sylvia winced when she
added up the figures, but she repeated sturdily the old phrase, "Dad won't mind!" and felt
secure that she would meet with no worse reprimand than a little good-natured banter.  On the
whole she had been very economical during her stay in England, and her conscience did not upbraid
her concerning this one extravagance.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

A TELEGRAM.

As soon as her room was in order on the day of the reception, Sylvia began the delightful task
of opening boxes and parcels, and laying their contents on the bed.  The satin skirt was spread
out with careful fingers, and over it a foam of frills and flounces which must surely have
grown, since it was inconceivable that they could have been fashioned by mortal hands.  Fan,
and gloves, and little lacy handkerchief lay side by side on the pillows; little satin shoes
stood at a jaunty angle, the crystal buckles shining in the sun.  The pearl necklace, which
had been a present from dad on her twenty-first birthday, lay on the toilet-table ready to
be snapped on, and a spray of white roses and maiden-hair floated in a basin of water.

All was ready, and Sylvia beamed with delight at the result of her preparations.  She had come
upstairs ostensibly to rest, but in reality she was far too excited to settle down even to
read, and could only wander about the room inventing one little duty after another, and weaving
endless day-dreams.  In a corner of the room stood her travelling-box, a convenient receptacle
into which to put the new purchases as they arrived from the shops.

The travelling dress, the piles of cool garments for summer wear lay neatly packed away, looking
fresh and dainty enough to have charmed any girl's heart, but this afternoon Sylvia had no
thought for the future; every hope and ambition was centred on the events of the next few hours.

Three o'clock!  How slowly the time passed!  Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine--six hours
still to while away before she would drive from the door with Pixie by her side, and Jack vis-a-vis,
leaning forward to look her over, and exclaim in admiration at her fine feathers. 

The mystery which hung so long over the authorship of the Waverley Novels, was cleared up by a misfortune
which all the world deplores, and which would have crushed any other spirit save that of Scott.
This stroke of evil fortune did not, perhaps, come quite unexpected; it was, however, unavoidable,
and it arose from no mismanagement or miscalculation of his own, unless I may consider--which
I do not--his embarking in the hazards of a printing-house, a piece of miscalculation.
 She peered curiously through the opposite windows, but no sign of the inhabitants
was to be seen; she yawned, drummed her fingers against the pane, and stared idly down the road.

It was not a lively neighbourhood at the best of times, and to-day it seemed even duller than
usual.  A nurse was wheeling a perambulator along the pavement, a milkman's cart was making
slow progress from door to door, a telegraph-boy was sauntering down the middle of the road
whistling a popular air.  Sylvia wondered where he was going, and what was the nature of the
message which he bore.  Some people were so nervous about telegrams--Aunt Margaret, for instance!
It was so rarely that her quiet life was disturbed by a message of sufficient importance to
make it worth while for the sender to expend sixpence on its delivery.

Sylvia's heart gave a leap of apprehension as the thought arose that perhaps the message was
for the O'Shaughnessy household to tell of some dire accident which had interfered with the
festivity of the evening. She had hardly time to breathe a sigh of relief as the boy passed
the gate of Number Three before apprehension re-awoke as he approached her own doorway.

A telegram for Aunt Margaret!  What could it be?  Ought she to go downstairs to lend the support
of her presence, or stay in her room where she was supposed to be enjoying a refreshing nap?
She heard the opening of the door and the sound of voices in the hall, then to her surprise
footsteps ascended the stairs, and someone whispered a gentle summons--

"Sylvia!  Are you awake?  A telegram has arrived for you, my dear.  You had better see it at once."

Miss Munns looked flurried and anxious, but her niece smiled a placid reassurement.

"I expect it is from father, fixing the date of my journey.  He said he would wire."  She tore
open the envelope and glanced hurriedly at the address.  "Yes, it is!  He is at Marseilles.
`Come at--'" Her voice died away, and she stood staring at the words in horrified incredulity,
while Miss Munns stepped forward hurriedly, and peered over her shoulder.

"Come at once.  Father dangerously ill.  Remain in charge till you come.--Nisbet."

"Nisbet!  Nisbet!  That was the name of the friends with whom he was to travel.  `Dangerously
ill!'  `At once!'  What can it mean?"

Sylvia laid the paper on the bed and pressed her hands against her head. She was deathly pale,
but perfectly composed and quiet, and the expression of her eyes showed that so far from being
stunned, she was thinking in quick, capable fashion.

"There is a train from Charing Cross at four o'clock," she said presently. Because of the victory
obtained over the French at the battle of Cressy, when Edward ordered his garter to be displayed
as a signal of battle; to commemorate which, he made a garter the
principal ornament of an order, and a symbol of the indissoluble union
of the knights.

  I will go with you myself,
and I cannot get ready at an hour's notice.  Wait until to-morrow, and--"

Sylvia turned round with a flash of anger in her eyes, but suddenly softened and took both
the old lady's hands in her own, holding them in a tender pressure.

