"Let me see," the doctor said, coming to Mary's side. "Ah, I can't make an examination here.
Better come with me, my child. I am on my way to the hospital. My carriage is here."

"Not to hospital," said Mary faintly. "Let me go home; they would be so frightened."

"I shan't detain you, I promise you. But this must be bandaged before you can go home. Ah,
is this basket yours, too?"

Someone had handed up the basket from the tram-track, where it had lain disgorging cabbages
and other articles of food.

"I will send you home as soon as I have seen to your arm," the doctor said, pushing her gently
towards his carriage. "And the little dog--is he your own? I suppose he is, since you nearly
gave your life for him?"

"He is not mine," said Mary faintly. "He belongs to Lady Anne--Lady Anne Hamilton. She lives
at No. 8, The Mall. She will be distracted if she misses the little dog. She is so very fond
of it."

"Ah! Lady Anne Hamilton. I have heard of her. We can leave the dog at home on our way. Come,
child."

The Mall was quite close at hand. They drove there, and just as the carriage stopped at the
gate of No. 8, which had a long strip of green front garden, overhung by trees through which
you could discern the old red-brick house. Lady Anne herself came down the gravel path. Over
her head was a little shawl of old lace; it was caught by a seed-pearl brooch with an amethyst
centre. She was wearing a quilted red silk petticoat and a bunched sacque of black flowered
silk. She had magnificent dark eyes and white hair. Under it her peaked little face was the
colour of old ivory. She was calling to her dog, "Fifine, Fifine, where can you be?"

A respectable-looking elderly maid came hurrying after her.

"I've looked everywhere, my lady, and I cannot find the little thing," she said in a frightened
voice.

Meanwhile, the doctor had got out of the carriage and had taken Fifine gently from Mary's lap.
Now that Mary was coming to herself she began to discover that the doctor was young and kind-looking,
but more careworn than his youth warranted. He opened the garden gate and went up to Lady Anne.

"Is this your little dog, madam?" he asked.

"My Fifine, my darling!" cried Lady Anne, embracing the trembling bit of wool. "You don't know
what she is to me, sir. My little grandson"--the imperious old voice shook--"loved the dog.
She was his pet. The child is dead. You understand----"

"Perfectly," said the doctor. "I, too--I know what loss is. The little dog strayed. She was
found in the High Road. I am very glad to restore her to you; but pray do not thank me. There
is a young girl in my carriage at the gate. She picked up your dog from under the wheels of
a tramcar, and broke her arm, I fear, in doing it. I am on my way to the hospital, the House
of Mercy, where I am doing work for a friend who is on holiday. I am taking her with me so
that I may set the arm where I have all the appliances."

"She saved my Fifine? Heroic child! Let me thank her."

The old lady clutched her recovered treasure to her breast with fervour, then handed the dog
over to the maid.

"Take me to see Fifine's preserver," she said in a commanding voice.

Mary was almost swooning with the pain of her arm. She heard Lady Anne's praises as though
from a long distance off.

"Stay, doctor," the old lady said; "I cannot have her jolted over the paving-stones of the
city to the Mercy. Bring her in here. We need not detain you very long. We can procure splints
and bandages, all you require, from a chemist's shop. There is one just round the corner. What,
do you say, child? They will be frightened about you at home! I shall send word. Be quiet now;
you must let us do everything for you."

So the doctor assisted Mary into the old house behind the trees. Lady Anne walked the other
side of her, pretending to assist Mary and really imagining that she did.

The splints and the bandages were on, and Mary had borne the pain well.

"I'm afraid I must go," said the doctor, looking at his watch. "I am half an hour behind my
time. And where am I to visit my patient?"

"Where but here?" said Lady Anne with decision. "It is now half-past eleven. I have lunch at
half-past one. Could you return to lunch, Dr.--ah, Dr. Carruthers. You are Dr. Carruthers,
are you not? You took the big house at the corner of Magnolia Road a year ago?"

"Yes, I am Dr. Carruthers; and I shall be very pleased to return to lunch, Lady Anne. I don't
think the little dog is any the worse for her experience."

His face was flushed as he stood with his hat in his hand, bowing and smiling. If only Lady
Anne Hamilton would take him up! That big house at the corner of Magnolia Road had been a daring
bid for fortune. So had the neat, single brougham, hired from a livery-stable. So had been
the three smart maids. But so far Fortune had not favoured him. He was one of fifty or so waiters
on Fortune. When people were ill in the smart suburban neighbourhood they liked to be attended
by Dr. Pownall, who always drove a pair of hundred guinea horses. None of your hired broughams
for them.

"You are paying too big a rent for a young man," said Lady Anne. "You can't have made it or
anything like made it. Pownall grows careless. The last time I sent for him he kept me two
hours waiting. When I had him to Stewart, my maid, he was in a hurry to be gone. Pownall has
too much to do--too much by half."

Her eyes rested thoughtfully on the agitated Dr. Carruthers.

"You shall tell me all about it when you come back to lunch," she said; "and I should like
to call on your wife."

CHAPTER II

THE WALL BETWEEN

"The child has brought us luck--luck at last, Mildred," Dr. Carruthers was saying, a few hours
later. "When I lifted her in my arms she was as light as a feather. A poor little shabby, overworked
thing, all eyes, and too big a forehead. Her boots were broken, and I noticed that her fingers
were rough with hard work."

He was walking up and down his wife's drawing-room in a tremendous state of excitement, while
she smiled at him from the sofa.

"It is wonderful, coming just now, too, when I had made up my mind that we couldn't keep afloat
here much longer, and had resolved to give up this house at the September quarter and retire
into a dingier part of the town. Once it is known that I am Lady Anne Hamilton's medical man
the snobs of the neighbourhood will all be sending for me."

"Poor Dr. Pownall!" said Mrs. Carruthers, laughing softly.

"Oh, Pownall is all right. They say he's immensely wealthy. He can retire now and enjoy his
money. If the public did not go back on him he'd be a dead man in five or six years. He does
the work of twenty men. I pity the others, the poor devils who are waiting on fortune as I
have waited."

"There is no fear of Lady Anne disappointing you?" she asked, in a hesitating voice. She did
not like to seem to throw cold water on his joyful mood.

"There is no fear," he answered, standing midway of the room with its three large windows.
"She is coming to see you, Milly. If I have failed in anything you will succeed. You will see
me at the top of the tree yet. You will have cause to be proud of me."

"I am always proud of you. Kit," she said, in a low, impassioned voice.

Meanwhile, Lady Anne herself had made a pilgrimage to Wistaria Terrace in the hour preceding
the luncheon hour. She had left Mary in a deep chair in the big drawing-room. Outside were
the boughs of trees. From the windows you could surprise the secrets of the birds if you would.
The room was very spacious, with chairs and sofas round the walls, a great mirror at either
end, a paper on its walls which pretended to be panels wreathed in roses. The ceiling had a
gay picture of gods and goddesses reclining in a flowery mead. The mantelpiece was Carrara
marble, curiously inlaid with coloured wreaths. There was a fire in the brass grate, although
it was summer weather. The proximity of the trees and the natural climate of the place meant
damp. The fire sparkled in the brass dogs and the brass jambs of the fireplace. The skin of
a tiger stretched itself along the floor. The terrible teeth grinned almost at Mary's feet.

The child was sick and faint from the pain of having her arm set. She lay in the deep sofa,
covered with red damask, amid a bewildering softness of cushions and rugs, and wondered what
Lady Anne was saying to Mamie. Mamie was Mrs. Gray. From the first Mary had not called her
Mother. Her name was Matilda, and Mamie was a sort of compromise.

Meanwhile, Lady Anne had gone out by her garden, through the stable, and into the lane at the
back. There was a little door open in the opposite wall; beyond it was a shabby trellis with
scarlet-runners clambering upon it.

Lady Anne peeped within. A disheartened-looking woman was hanging a child's frock on the line
which was stretched from wall to wall. Three children, ranging in age from two to five, were
sitting on the grass plot. Two were playing with white stones. The third was surveying its
own small feet with great interest, sucking at a fat thumb as though it conveyed some delicious
nourishment.

"Do I speak to Mrs. Gray?" asked Lady Anne, advancing. She had a sunshade over her head, a
deep-fringed thing with a folding handle. She had bought it in Paris in the days of the Second
Empire.

Mrs. Gray stared at the stranger within her gates, whom she knew by sight. There was some perturbation
in her face. She had been worried about the unusual duration of Mary's absence. Mary had not
come back with the market basket which contained the children's dinner. The town was still,
it must be remembered, in its primitive watery condition, the chapels, not only of St. Martin,
but of St. Clément and of St. Eloi, were on islands that are now part of the firm soil of the river's
bank. The waters of the Robec itself formed one of the defences of
the ruined city Rollo took.

Just beyond the line of the old Gallo-Roman walls, rose the first rude monastery of St. Ouen;
shrines were also consecrated to St. Godard, to St. Martin, to St.
Vincent sur Rive; but most of the houses were still only of timber,
and it was not till Rollo had closed up the wandering bed of the river
between these shifting islands that the "Terres Neuves" were first
formed that reached from the Rue Saint Denis to the Eau de Robec,
through the Place de la Calende, down to the Rue de la Madeleine and
the Rue aux Ours, and so to the Quai de la Bourse by way of the Rue
des Cordeliers.

What is now merely No. 41 Rue Nationale, was once the old church
of St. Pierre du Chastel, and the name commemorates the spot where
Rollo built his first square tower, the first of the many "Tours"
that were built by the lords of Rouen, native and foreign, princes
or pirates, from the river to the northern angle of the outer walls.

Map B shows Rollo's castle and the three which followed it, one on each side beneath, and one above.

It
was in 912 that Rollo thus marked the beginning of the Duchy of Normandy with the strong seal
of his donjon-keep at Rouen, though he and his descendants for another century were still
known only as the Pirates, and the Pirates' Duke. In that year he was baptised by the Archbishop
of Rouen, and received from the Karoling King all the lands from "the river of Epte to the sea,
and westwards to Brittany," with the hand of the Princess Gisela. Robert, Duke of the Franks,
came back with him to Rouen to be his godfather, and for seven days
the "King of the Sea" wore the white robes of innocence, and his followers
eagerly joined him in the fold of Christianity, with results whose
worldwide importance were only to be seen more than a century later.

For the present the wolves were quite ready to lie down with the
lambs, but they kept their brutal dignity and coarse jests throughout
all the solemn ceremonial.

 By the way, she is not your daughter?"

"My stepdaughter."

"Ah, I thought so. Well, the charwoman shall come in at once. She can cook. Later on, we shall
see--we shall see."

"By the way," said Lady Anne, coming back with a rustle of silks while Mrs. Gray yet stood
in bewilderment, holding the baby's frock in her limp fingers. "By the way, Mary is very anxious
about her father--how he will take her accident. Will you tell your husband that I shall be
glad to see him when he comes home this evening?"

"I will, my lady," said Mrs. Gray; "and, my lady, would you please not to mention to Mr. Gray
about the charwoman? He's that proud; it would hurt him, I'm sure. If he isn't told he'll never
know she's there. A child isn't as easily deceived as Walter."

"I shall certainly not tell him," Lady Anne said graciously. She did not object to the honest
pride in Walter Gray. He was probably a superior man for his station, being Mary's father.
As for that poor slattern, Lady Anne had lived too long in the world to be amazed by the marriages
men made, either in her own exalted circle or in those below it.

Walter Gray came, in a flutter of tender anxiety, at half-past six in the evening, to Lady
Anne's garden, where Mary was sitting in her wicker chair under the mulberry tree. Lady Anne
had given orders that he was to be shown out to the garden when he called.

"My poor little girl!" he said, with an arm about Mary's shoulder.

Then he took off his hat to Lady Anne. There was respect in his manner, but nothing over-humble,
nothing to say that they were not equals in a sense. His eyes, at once bright and dreamy, rested
on her with a friendly regard.

"The man has gentle blood in him somewhere," said the old lady to herself. She had a sense
of humour which kept her knowledge of her own importance from becoming overweening. "I believe
his respect is for my age, not for my rank. I wonder what the world is coming to!"

She went away then and left the father and daughter together. Walter, who had taken a chair
by Mary's, looked with a half-conscious pleasure round the velvet sward on which the shadows
of the trees lay long. The trees were at their full summer foliage, dark as night, mysterious,
magnificent.

"What a very pleasant place!" Walter Gray said, with grave enjoyment. "How sweet the evening
smells are! How quiet everything is! Who could believe that Wistaria Terrace was over the wall?"

"I have been missing Wistaria Terrace," Mary said. "You don't know how lonesome it feels for
the children. I wonder how Mamie is getting on without me. I want to go home. Indeed, I feel
quite able to. I don't know how I shall do without going home."

"If you went home," said Walter Gray, unexpectedly practical, "your arm would never set, Mary.
You'd be forgetting and doing all manner of things you oughtn't to do. If Lady Anne is kind
enough to ask you to visit her, stay a while and rest, dear. Indeed, you do too much for your
size."

"You will all miss me so dreadfully."

"Indeed, I don't think we shall miss you--in that way. Oddly enough--I suppose Matilda was
on her mettle--the house seemed quieter when I came home. The children were in bed. I smelt
something good from the kitchen. Don't imagine that we shall not be able to do without you, child."

Mary, who knew no more of the capable charwoman than Walter Gray did, looked on this speech
of her father's as a mere string of tender subterfuges. She said nothing, but her eyes rested
on her grey woollen skirt, faded by wear and the weather, and she had an unchildish sense of
the incongruity of her presence as a visitor in Lady Anne's house. Walter Gray's glance roamed
over his young daughter. He saw nothing of her dreary attire. He saw only the spiritual face,
over-pale, the slender, young, unformed body, graceful as a half-opened flower in its ill-fitting
covering, the slender feet that had a suggestion of race, the toil-worn hands the fingers of
which tapered to fine points.

"You have always done too much, child," he said, with sudden, tender compunction.

When he rose to go Mary clung to him as though their parting was to be for years.

"I will come in again to-morrow," he said. "I shall sleep better to-night for thinking of you
in this quiet, restful place. Get some roses in your cheeks, little girl, before you come back
to us."

"I wish I were going back now," said Mary piteously. She looked round the old walls with their
climbing fruit trees as though they were the walls of a prison. "It is awful not to be able
to come and go. And Mamie will never be able to do without me. The children will be ill----"

He left her in tears. As he re-entered the house by its iron steps up to a glass door Lady
Anne came out from her morning-room and called him within. He looked about him at the room,
walled in with books, with yellowed marble busts of great men on top of the book-cases. His
feet sank in soft carpets. The smell of a pot of lilies mingled with the smell of leather bindings.
The light in the room, filtered through the leaves of an overhanging creeper, was green and
gold. It seemed to him that he must have known such a room in some other world, where he had
not had to make watches all day with a glass screwed in his eye, but had abundant leisure for
books and beautiful things. Not but that there might be worse things than the watchmaking.
Over the works of the watches, the fine little wheels and springs, Walter Gray thought hard,
thought incessantly. He thought, perhaps, the harder that he had neither the leisure nor opportunity
for putting down his thoughts on paper or imparting them to another like-minded with himself.
How his fellows would have stared if they could have known the things that went on inside Walter
Gray's mind as he leant above his table, peering into the interior of the watch-cases!

"Sit down, Mr. Gray," said Lady Anne graciously; "I want to talk to you about Mary."

She approached the matter delicately, having wit enough to see that Walter Gray was no common
person. While she talked she looked with frank admiration at his face: the fine, high, delicate
nose; the arched brows, like Mary's own; the over-development of the forehead. The dust of
years and worries lay thick upon his face, yet Lady Anne said to herself that it was a beautiful
face beneath the dust.

"I want to talk to you about Mary," she went on. "The child interests me strongly. She is a
fine vessel, this little daughter of yours. Pray excuse me if I speak plainly. She has been
doing far too much for her age and her strength. Haven't you noticed that she is pulled down
to earth? Those babies, Mr. Gray--they are remarkably fat and heavy; they are killing Mary."

"Her mother died of consumption," Walter Gray said, his face whitening with terror.

"Ah!" the old lady thought; "she is the child of his heart. Those three twins are merely the
children of his home. That poor drudge of a mother of theirs! Mary is the child of her father's
heart and mind."

Then aloud: "You had better let me have her, Mr. Gray."

"Let you have her, Lady Anne? What would you do with my Mary?"

He looked scarcely less aghast than he had done a moment before at the suggestion of consumption.

"Not separate her from you, Mr. Gray. This house is my home, and I am not likely to leave it,
except for a month or two at a time, at my age. I think the child will be a companion to me.
I have no romantic suggestions to make. I am not proposing to adopt Mary. I shall pay her a
salary, and give her opportunities for education that you cannot. She interests me, as I have
said. Let me have her. When I no longer need her--I am an old woman, Mr. Gray--she will be
fit to earn her own living. Everything I have goes back to my nephew Jarvis Lord Iniscrone.
But Mary will not suffer. Think! What have you to give her but a life of drudgery under which
she will break down--die, perhaps?"

She watched the emotion in his face with her little keen, bright eyes.

"It is not a fine lady's caprice?" he said. "You won't make my Mary accustomed to better things
than I could give her and then send her back to be a drudge?"

"The Lord judge between thee and me," she answered solemnly.

"Then I trust you, Lady Anne Hamilton," he said.

The strange thing was that the proud old lady was gratified, almost flattered, by the confidence
in Walter Gray's unworldly eyes.

"Thank you, Mr. Gray," she said; then, as he took up his hat to go, she laid a detaining hand
on his shabby coat sleeve.

"Why not have dinner with Mary in the garden?" she suggested. "Do, pray. I want you to tell
her what we have agreed upon. I can send word to Mrs. Gray."

Walter Gray was pleased enough to go back to his little girl whom he had left in tears for
the comfortless house and the burden of the young stepbrothers and stepsisters. It was pleasure,
half pain, to see the uplifted face with which Mary regarded him when she saw him return. How
was he going to put the barrier between them that this plan to which he had given his consent
would surely mean? He had no illusions. Over the wall, Lady Anne had said. But the wall that
separated Wistaria Terrace and the Mall was in reality a high and a great wall. He would never
have Mary in the old close communion again. All passes. How good the old times were that were
only a few hours away, yet seemed worlds! Never again! They would never be all and all to each
other in a solitude which took no count of the others. Yet it was for Mary's sake. For Mary's
sake the wall was to rise between them. As he began to tell her the strange, wonderful thing,
his heart was heavy within him because a chapter of his life was closed. Rooks are keen politicians.
I once saw an assembly of them--I don't know if it was the local
Caw-cus or not--divide into two portions, one going to one tree, another
to another, and then two elderly rooks went round, and counted both
batches.



"Lady Anne is very kind," she said tearfully; "but I don't want to stay with her. I couldn't
bear to live anywhere but in Wistaria Terrace. It is absurd that you should say you have given
your consent, papa. How could you possibly have consented when the house could not get on without
me? You know it could not. Why, even for a day things would be all topsy-turvy without me."

"And so you have not gone to school," the father answered, with an accent of self-reproach.
"You have been weighed down with responsibilities and cares that you ought to have been free
of for years to come. You have even been stunted in your growth, as Lady Anne said. It is time
things were altered. I don't know how I was so blind. We ought to be grateful to the accident
that has opened a door to us."

When he had gone, Lady Anne came and comforted Mary. There was a deal of kindness in the old
lady's heart.

"You shall help them," she said. "Dear me, how much help you will be able to give them! Imagine
beginning with a salary at fifteen! You are to leave things to me, Mary. The strongest objection
he has to violate his sacred trust arises from the fear that such a revelation would break
the heart of an exemplary old Goody Two-Shoes, for whom he has all his life long cherished
a youthful love, the thought of which, and not his supernatural vocation,
has sustained him, so I understood him to say, throughout his priestly
career.

All very pretty and "pale young Curatey," and theatrically sentimental, but don't put this man
forward as the self-sacrificing hero of a Melodrama.
 She had lost her son and her grandson, and she could not endure her nephew or his family.
She had only a few old cronies. As a matter of fact, although she had taken a fancy to Mary
Gray and captured the child's susceptible heart, she was not a particularly amiable or lovable
old lady to the rest of the world. She was too keen-sighted and sharp-tongued to be popular.

Mary slept that night in such a room as she had never dreamt of. There was a little bed in
the corner of it with a flowing veil of white, lace-trimmed muslin like a baby's cot. There
was white muslin tied with blue ribbons at the window, and the dressing-table was as gaily
and innocently adorned. There was a work-box on a little table, a writing-desk on another;
a shelf of books hung on the wall. The room had really been made ready for a dear young cousin
of Lady Anne's, who had not lived to enjoy it. If Mary had only known, she owed something of
Lady Anne's interest to the fact that her eyes were grey, like Viola's, her cheek transparent
like Viola's.

Apart from the discomfort of the broken arm, as she lay in the soft, downy little bed, she
was ill at ease, wondering how they were getting on without her at Wistaria Terrace. Her breast
had an ache for the baby who was used to lie warm against it. Her good arm felt strange and
lonely for the familiar little body. She kept putting it out in a panic during her sleep because
she missed the baby.

In the morning Simmons, Lady Anne's maid, came to help her dress. It was very difficult, Mary
found, to do things for one's self with a broken arm. Her head ached because of the disturbed
sleep and the pain of the broken limb. Simmons had come to her in a somewhat hostile frame
of mind. She did not hold with picking up gutter-children from no one knew where and setting
people as were respectable to wait upon them. But at heart she was a good-natured woman, and
her indignation disappeared before the unchildish pain and weariness of Mary's face.

"There," she said, "I wouldn't be fretting, if I were you. Lor' bless you, there's fine treats
in store for you. Her ladyship sent only last night for a roll of grey cashmere. I'm to fit
you after your breakfast and make it up as quick as I can. Then you'll be fit to go out with
her ladyship in the carriage and get your other things."

It was the last day of the ugly linsey. Simmons got through her task with great quickness.
She was a woman of taste, else she had not been Lady Anne's maid. Lady Anne was more particular
about her garments than most young women. And, having once made up her mind to like Mary, Simmons
took an interest in her task.

"You are so kind, Mrs. Simmons," Mary said gratefully, feeling the gentleness and dexterity
with which the woman tried on her new garments without once jarring the broken arm.

"I'm kind enough to those who take me the proper way," said Simmons, greatly pleased with Mary's
prefix of Mrs., which was brevet rank, since Simmons had never married. It would have made
a great difference to Mary's comfort at this time if she had been sufficiently ill-advised
to call Simmons without a prefix, as Lady Anne did.

Dr. Carruthers had called to see Mary the morning after the accident. He had interviewed his
patient in the morning-room, and was passing out through the hall when Lady Anne's voice over
the banisters summoned him to her presence.

"You can give me a little while, Dr. Carruthers?" she said. "I shall not be interfering with
your work?"

"I am quite free"--a little colour came into his cheeks. "The friend whose work I was doing
at the House of Mercy returned last night. Yesterday was my last day."

"Ah! and yesterday brought you an unexpected patient. How do you find her?"

"She has less physique than she ought to have."

"Yes, she has been underfed and overworked. I am going to alter all that. I have taken her
into my house as my little companion."

Dr. Carruthers stared in spite of himself.

"You think it very odd of me? Well, I am odd, and I can afford to do what pleases me. Mary
Gray is going to live here. You should know her father. A quite remarkable man, I consider
him. Now, about yourself. I have heard of you, Dr. Carruthers. I have heard that you are a
very clever young man and devoted to your work, that you have all the knowledge of the schools
at your fingertips, but very little experience, and no practice to speak of."

"Excuse me, Lady Anne. I was three years house surgeon at the Good Samaritan; and I have done
a great deal of work since I have been here. I will confess that my patients have been of a
poor class."

"Who have not paid you a penny. I don't know whether you do it for philanthropy or to keep
your hand in----"

"A little of both," the young man said with a faint smile.

"But it is a good thing to do," the old lady went on, without noticing his interpellation.
"You're spoken well of by the poor, if the rich have not heard anything about you. I know you're
living beyond your means in a big house, hoping that a paying practice will come to you. My
dear man, it never will, so long as people think you are in need of it. They like Dr. Pownall
at their doors with his carriage and pair, even if he can only give them five minutes. Pownall
forgot himself with me. I remember his father--a very decent, respectable man who used to grow
cabbages. That's nothing against Pownall--creditable to him, I should say. Still, he hadn't
time to listen to my symptoms, and he was rude. 'A woman of your age,' he said. I should like
to know who told Dr. Pownall my age. A lady has no age. 'It's time you retired,' I said to
him. 'I don't think of it,' said he; 'not for ten years yet. My patients won't hear of it.'
'You're greedy,' said I; 'if you weren't your patients might go to Hong Kong.' He thought it
was a joke--hadn't time to find out whether I was serious or not. There are four or six of them.
What an effect has been missed by not bringing them in on real horses,
and giving them a quartette or a sestette à cheval, with a solo for
the Captain!

Then the Captain might know all about the murder, and he would reveal it without breaking the
seal--unless it were to crack a bottle--and all would end happily. As it is, all ends miserably,
or would so end, but for the Captain, whose last words before the
fall of the Curtain, uttered in his best French, are "Ong Avong!

 "We had made up our
minds to give up the big house and look for a slum practice. The children--I have two living--are
not very strong, any more than Mildred. We put all we could into the venture of taking the
house. It was our bid for fortune."

"I wouldn't approve of it in a general way," said Lady Anne. "Still, it has turned out well.
Will your wife be at home to-morrow afternoon? I should like to call upon her."

"She will be delighted."

Dr. Carruthers was regaining his self-control. He knew that the presence of Lady Anne's barouche
at his door for an hour in the afternoon would be more potent in opening doors to him than
if he had made the most brilliant cure on record.

Mary was with Lady Anne next day when she went to call on Mrs. Carruthers. It was characteristic
of Lady Anne that she thought to tell Jennings, the coachman, to drive up and down in front
of the house and round the sides, for Dr. Carruthers' house was a corner one with a frontage
to three sides. It was a hot summer day, and Jennings wondered disrespectfully what bee the
old lady had got in her bonnet. Such a jangling of harness, such a flashing of polished surfaces!
Every window that commanded the three sides of Dr. Carruthers' house had an eye at the pane.
The tidings flew from one to another that Lady Anne Hamilton was visiting Mrs. Carruthers,
and was making a very long call.

