by reading all the nonsense that had been written about them in the dawn of inquiry. He should
be read in a corresponding spirit. One should often stop to appreciate the full flavour of
some quaint allusion, or lay down the book to follow out some diverging line of thought. So
read in a retired study, or beneath the dusty shelves of an ancient library, a page of Sir
Thomas seems to revive the echoes as of ancient chants in college chapels, strangely blended
with the sonorous perorations of professors in the neighbouring schools, so that the interferences
sometimes produce a note of gentle mockery and sometimes heighten solemnity by quaintness.

That, however, is not the spirit in which books are often read in these days. We have an appetite
for useful information, and an appetite for frivolous sentiment or purely poetical musing.
We cannot combine the two after the quaint fashion of the old physician. And therefore these
charming writings have ceased to suit our modern taste; and Sir Thomas is already passing under
that shadow of mortality which obscures all, even the greatest, reputations, and with which
no one has dwelt more pathetically or graphically than himself.

If we are disposed to complain, Sir Thomas shall himself supply the answer, in a passage from
the 'Hydriotaphia,' which, though described by Hallam as the best written of his treatises,
is not to my taste so attractive as the 'Religio Medici.' The concluding chapter, however,
is in his best style, and here are some of his reflections on posthumous fame. We, whose generations
are ordained in this setting part of time, are providentially taken off from such imaginations;
and being necessitated to eye the remaining particle of futurity, are naturally constituted
into thoughts of the next world, and cannot excusably decline the consideration of that duration,
which maketh pyramids pillars of snow, and all that's past a moment.'

If the argument has now been vulgarised in the hands of Dr. Cumming and his like, the language
and the sentiment are worthy of any of our greatest masters.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] Ross, for example, urges that the invisibility of the phoenix is sufficiently accounted
for by the natural desire of a unique animal to keep out of harm's way.

[6] Mr. Lowell, in 'Shakspeare Once More,' 'Among My Books.'

JONATHAN EDWARDS[7]

Two of the ablest thinkers whom America has yet produced were born in New England at the beginning
of the eighteenth century. The theorists who would trace all our characteristics to inheritance
from some remote ancestor might see in Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin normal representatives
of the two types from which the genuine Yankee is derived. Though blended in various proportions,
and though one may exist almost to the exclusion of the other, an element of shrewd mother-wit
and an element of transcendental enthusiasm are to be detected in all who boast a descent from
the pilgrim fathers. Franklin, born in 1706, represents in its fullest development the more
earthly side of this compound. A thoroughbred utilitarian, full of sagacity, and carrying into
all regions of thought that strange ingenuity which makes an American the handiest of all human
beings, Franklin is best embodied in his own poor Richard. Honesty is the best policy: many
a little makes a mickle: the second vice is lying, the first is running in debt; and--

    'Get what you can, and what you get hold;
     'Tis the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.'

These and a string of similar maxims are the pith of Franklin's message to the world. Franklin,
however, was not merely a man in whom the practical intelligence was developed in a very remarkable
degree, but was fortunate in coming upon a crisis admirably suited to his abilities, and in
being generally in harmony with the spirit of his age. He succeeded, as we know, in snatching
lightning from the heavens, and the sceptre from tyrants; and had his reward in the shape of
much contemporary homage from French philosophers, and lasting renown amongst his countrymen.
Meanwhile, Jonathan Edwards, his senior by three years, had the fate common to men who are
unfitted for the struggles of daily life, and whose philosophy does not harmonise with the
dominant current of the time. A speculative recluse, with little faculty of literary expression,
and given to utter opinions shocking to the popular mind, he excited little attention during
his lifetime, except amongst the sharers of his own religious persuasions; and, when noticed
after his death, the praise of his intellectual acuteness has generally been accompanied with
an expression of abhorrence for his supposed moral obtuseness. Mr. Lecky, for example, whilst
speaking of Edwards as 'probably the ablest defender of Calvinism,' mentions his treatise on
Original Sin as 'one of the most revolting books that have ever proceeded from the pen of man'
('Rationalism,' i. 404). That intense dislike, which is far from uncommon, for severe reasoning
has even made a kind of reproach to Edwards of what is called his 'inexorable logic.' To condemn
a man for being honestly in the wrong is generally admitted to be unreasonable; but people
are even more unforgiving to the sin of being honestly in the right. The frankness with which
Edwards avowed opinions, not by any means peculiar to himself, has left a certain stain upon
his reputation. He has also suffered in general repute from a cause which should really increase
our interest in his writings. Metaphysicians, whilst admiring his acuteness, have been disgusted
by his adherence to an outworn theology; and theologians have cared little for a man who was
primarily a philosophical speculator, and has used his philosophy to bring into painful relief
the most terrible dogmas of the ancient creeds. Edwards, however, is interesting just because
he is a connecting link between two widely different phases of thought. He connects the expiring
Calvinism of the old Puritan theocracy with what is called the transcendentalism embodied in
the writings of Emerson and other leaders of young America. He is remarkable, too, as illustrating,
at the central point of the eighteenth century, those speculative tendencies which were most
vitally opposed to the then dominant philosophy of Locke and Hume. And, finally, there is a
still more permanent interest in the man himself, as exhibiting in high relief the weak and
the strong points of the teaching of which Calvinism represents only one embodiment. His life,
in striking contrast to that of his more celebrated contemporary, ran its course far away from
the main elements of European activity. With the exception of a brief stay at New York, he
lived almost exclusively in the interior of what was then the thinly-settled colony of Massachusetts.[8]
His father was for nearly sixty years minister of a church in Connecticut, and his mother's
father, the 'celebrated Solomon Stoddard,' for about an equal time minister of a church at
Northampton, Massachusetts. Young Jonathan, brought up at the feet of these venerable men,
after the strictest sect of the Puritans, was sent to Yale at the age of twelve, took his B.A.
degree at the age of seventeen, and two years afterwards became a preacher at New York. Thence
he returned to a tutorship at Yale, but in his twenty-fourth year was ordained as colleague
of his grandfather Stoddard, and spent at Northampton the next twenty-three years of his life.
It may be added that he married early a wife of congenial temper, and had eleven children.[9]
One of his daughters,--it is an odd combination,--was the mother of Aaron Burr, the duellist
who killed Hamilton, and afterwards became the prototype of all Southern secessionists. The
external facts, however, of Edwards' life are of little interest, except as indicating the
influences to which he was exposed. Puritanism, though growing faint, was still powerful in
New England; it was bred in his bones, and he was drilled from his earliest years into its
sternest dogmas. Some curious fragments of his early life and letters indicate the nature of
his spiritual development. Whilst still almost a boy, he writes down solemn resolutions, and
practises himself in severe self-inspection. He resolves 'never to do, be, or suffer anything
in soul or body, more or less, but what tends to the glory of God;' to 'live with all my might
while I do live;' 'never to speak anything that is ridiculous or matter of laughter on the
Lord's Day' (a resolution which we might think rather superfluous, even though extended to
other days); and, 'frequently to renew the dedication of myself to God, which was made at my
baptism, which I solemnly renewed when I was received into the communion of the Church, and
which I have solemnly ratified this 12th day of January 1723' (i. 18). He pledges himself,
in short, to a life of strict self-examination and absolute devotion to what he takes for the
will of God. Similar resolutions have doubtless been made by countless young men, brought up
under the same conditions, and diaries of equal value have been published by the authors of
innumerable saintly biographies. In Edwards' mouth, however, they really had a meaning, and
bore corresponding results. An interesting paper gives an account of those religious 'experiences'
to which his sect attaches so tremendous an importance. From his childhood, he tells us, his
mind had been full of objections to the doctrine of God's sovereignty. It appeared to him to
be a 'horrible doctrine' that God should choose whom He would, and reject whom He pleased,
'leaving them eternally to perish and be tormented eternally in hell.' The whole history of
his intellectual development is involved in the process by which he became gradually reconciled
to this appalling dogma. In the second year of his collegiate course, we are told, which would
be about the fourteenth of his age, he read Locke's Essay with inexpressible delight. The first
glimpse of metaphysical inquiry, it would seem, revealed to him the natural bent of his mind,
and opened to him the path of speculation in which he ever afterwards delighted. Locke, though
Edwards always mentions him with deep respect, was indeed a thinker of a very different school.
The disciple owed to his master, not a body of doctrine, but the impulse to intellectual activity.
He succeeded in working out for himself a satisfactory answer to the problem by which he had
been perplexed. His cavils ceased as his reason strengthened. 'God's absolute sovereignty and
justice' seemed to him to be as clear as anything he saw with his eyes; 'at least,' he adds,
'it is so at times.' Nay, he even came to rejoice in the doctrine and regard it as 'infinitely
pleasant, bright, and sweet' (i. 33). The Puritan assumptions were so ingrained in his nature
that the agony of mind which they caused never led him to question their truth, though it animated
him to discover a means of reconciling them to reason; and the reconciliation is the whole
burden of his ablest works. The effect upon his mind is described in terms which savour of
a less stern school of faith. God's glory was revealed to him throughout the whole creation,
and often threw him into ecstasies of devotion (i. 33). I often used to sit and view the moon
for continuance, and in the day spent much time in viewing the clouds and sky, to behold the
sweet glory of God in these things; in the meantime singing forth, with a low voice, my contemplations
of the Creator and Redeemer.' Thunder, he adds, had once been terrible to him; 'now scarce
anything in all the works of nature' was so sweet (i. 36). This great change in 'Squimalt has
not taken place in late years. The loss of the naval station lately does not seem to have
made a deal of difference to its appearance. It dates back to the "wooden walls" of old England,
and the appearance on the scene of the ironclad of later years. Whatever was the cause, the
effect is there, and I suppose good reason could be found for the great change. Melancholy it was
to me, who had seen the place full of life, jollity and laughter as bluejackets and scarlet-coated
marines by scores landed with plenty of money in their pockets, and maybe three days to spend it
in. They were soon on the road to Victoria, stopping at the wayside houses as they jogged along,
singing and laughing like a lot of schoolboys let loose from school.

On one of these occasions a laughable incident occurred, as scores of these bluejackets and
marines passed up Esquimalt Road. A squad or more might have been seen walking along, headed
by a bluejacket playing a lively tune on a fife or tin whistle. One or two were dancing to the
tune, when all at once the music stopped, as a halt was made, the command being "'Alt all 'ands!"
They had come opposite a wayside house and the sign over the porch--saloon--had attracted their
attention. One of the sailors had commenced to spell out the sign. "What's this blooming sign say?
A hess, and a hay and a hell and a double ho, and a hen--saloon! Why blast my blooming h'eyes,
mates, it's a blooming pub! All 'ands come in and take a drink," and you may be sure "all 'ands"
forthwith filed into the saloon and "smiled," to use a Western phrase.

"For Jack's the boy for work, And Jack's the boy for play; And Jack's the lad, When girls are
sad, To kiss their tears away."

These good old days of 'Squimalt, I am afraid, are gone for ever with her prestige as a naval station
taken from her. Shall we see her rise again as a commercial port, as a headquarters of the C.P.R.?
Shall the echoes of commerce take the place of the echoes of Jack's laughter and song? Let
us hope so, and so end my little reminiscences of 'Squimalt's early times.

Since writing this I have come across a cutting in my scrap book from the Colonist of May 17th,
1870, which gives the account of the arrival of the first and only
flying squadron (under Admiral Hornby), which ever arrived here. By
the by, we were promised flying squadrons in lieu of stationary squadrons
on this station. When is the first to arrive? As there was a flagship
here with two other vessels, at this time, my readers may imagine
the number of men in Esquimalt harbor at that date; not less than
three thousand five hundred, I am sure, and how lively this must have
made Esquimalt and Victoria. When you call yourself
the worst of men, he says, be careful that you do not think highly of yourself just because
you think so meanly. And if you reply, 'No, I have not a high opinion of my humility; it seems
to me I am as proud as the devil;' ask again, 'whether on this very account that you think
yourself as proud as the devil, you do not think yourself to be very humble' (iv. 282). That
is a characteristic bit of subtilising, and it indicates the danger of all this excessive introspection.
Edwards would not have accepted the moral that the best plan is to think about yourself as
little as possible; for from his point of view this constant cross-examination of all your
feelings, this dissection of emotion down to its finest and most intricate convolutions, was
of the very essence of religion. No one, however, can read his account of his own feelings,
even when he runs into the accustomed phraseology, without perceiving the ring of genuine feeling.
He is morbid, it may be, but he is not insincere; and even his strained hyperboles are scarcely
unintelligible when considered as the expression of the sentiment produced by the effort of
a human being to live constantly in presence of the absolute and the infinite.

The event which most powerfully influenced Edwards' mind during his life at Northampton was
one of those strange spiritual storms which then, as now, swept periodically across the Churches.
Protestants generally call them revivals; in Catholic countries they impel pilgrims to some
devotional shrine; Edwards and his contemporaries described such a phenomenon as 'a remarkable
outpouring of God's Holy Spirit.' He has carefully described the symptoms of one such commotion,
in which he was a main agent; and two or three later treatises, discussing some of the problems
suggested by the scenes he witnessed, testify to the profoundness of the impression upon his
mind. In fact, as we shall presently see, Edwards' whole philosophical system was being put
to a practical test by these events. Was the excitement, as modern observers would say, due
to a mere moral epidemic, or was it actually produced by the direct interposition in human
affairs of the Almighty Ruler? Unhesitatingly recognising the hand of the God the very thought
of whom crushed him into self-annihilation, Edwards is unconsciously troubled by the strange
contrast between the effect and the stupendous cause assigned for it. When the angel of the
Lord comes down to trouble the waters, one would expect rather to see oceans upheaved than
a trifling ripple in an insignificant pond. There is something almost pathetic in his eagerness
to magnify the proportions of the event. He boasts that in six months 'more than three hundred
souls were savingly brought home to Christ in this town' (iii. 23). The town itself, it may
be observed, though then one of the most populous in the country, was only of eighty-two years'
standing, and reckoned about two hundred families, the era of Chicagos not having yet dawned
upon the world. The conversion, however, of this village appeared to some 'divines and others'
to herald the approach of the 'conflagration' (iii. 59); and though Edwards disavows this rash
conjecture, he anticipates with some confidence the approach of the millennium. The 'isles
and ships of Tarshish,' mentioned in Isaiah, are plainly meant for America, which is to be
'the firstfruits of that glorious day' (iii. 154); and he collects enough accounts of various
revivals of an analogous kind which had taken place in Salzburg, Holland, and several of the
British Colonies, to justify the anticipation 'that these universal commotions are the forerunners
of something exceeding glorious approaching' (iii. 414). The limited area of the disturbance
perhaps raised less difficulty than the equivocal nature of many of the manifestations. In
Edwards' imagination, Satan was always on the watch to produce an imitation, and, it would
seem, a curiously accurate imitation, of the Divine impulses. As De Foe says, in a different
sense--

    Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
    The devil always builds a chapel there.

And some people were unkind enough to trace in the diseases and other questionable products
of the revival a distinct proof of the 'operation of the evil spirit' (iii. 96). Edwards felt
the vital importance of distinguishing between the two classes of supernatural agency, so different
in their source, and yet so thoroughly similar in their effects. There is something rather
touching, though at times our sympathy is not quite unequivocal, in the simplicity with which
he traces distinct proofs of the Divine hand in the familiar phenomena of religious conversions.
The stories seem stale and profitless to us which he accepted with awe-stricken reverence as
a demonstrative testimony to the Divinity of the work. He gives, for example, an anecdote of
a young woman, who, being jealous of another conversion, resolved to bring about her own by
the rather naïf expedient of reading the Bible straight through. Having begun her task on Monday,
the desired effect was produced on Thursday, and she felt it possible to skip at once to the
New Testament. The crisis ran through its usual course, ending in a state of rapture, during
which she enjoyed for days 'a kind of beatific vision of God.' The poor girl was very ill,
and expressed 'great longings to die.' When her brother read in Job about worms feeding on
the dead body, she 'appeared with a pleasant smile, and said it was sweet to her to think of
her being in such circumstances' (iii. 69). The longing was speedily gratified, and she departed,
perhaps not to find in another world that the universe had been laid out precisely in accordance
with the theories of Mr. Jonathan Edwards, but at least leaving behind her--so we are assured--memories
of touching humility and spirituality. If Abigail Hutchinson strikes us as representing, on
the whole, rather a morbid type of human excellence, what are we to say to Phebe Bartlet, who
had just passed her fourth birthday in April 1735? (iii. 70). This infant of more than Yankee
precocity was converted by her brother, who had just gone through the same process at the age
of eleven. After some trouble the thief had been captured and the picture recovered. The thief gave
as a reason for stealing it that he thought it might inspire him to paint just such a picture,
he being ambitious to be a painter. I hardly think this excuse will weigh with the authorities.
In the room of pioneer relics I found many interesting things. First a large bell which recorded
on the outside the founding of the volunteer fire department, organized
1850, George Hosseproso, chief engineer. She took great delight in 'private religious meetings,' and was specially
edified by the sermons of Mr. Edwards, for whom she professed, as he records, with perhaps
some pardonable complacency, the warmest affection. The grotesque side of the story of this
detestable infant is, however, blended with something more shocking. The poor little wretch
was tormented by the fear of hell-fire; and her relations and pastor appear to have done their
best to stimulate this, as well as other religious sentiments. Edwards boasts at a subsequent
period that 'hundreds of little children' had testified to the glory of God's work (iii. 146).
He afterwards remarks incidentally that many people had considered as 'intolerable' the conduct
of the ministers in 'frightening poor innocent little children with talk of hell-fire and eternal
damnation' (iii. 200). And indeed we cannot deny that when reading some of the sermons to which
poor Phebe Bartlet must have listened, and remembering the nature of the audience, the fingers
of an unregenerate person clench themselves involuntarily as grasping an imaginary horsewhip.
The answer given by Edwards does not diminish the impression. T. Coleman, Charles Doane, James
King of William, and a picture of the scene of his assassination. I recognized this locality
immediately I saw it. It was the offices of the Pacific Express Co., on the corner of Washington
and Montgomery. There were also pictures of Fort Gunnybags, the headquarters of the vigilance
committee, showing the alarm bell and the sentries on the roof; also Lola Montez, Countess
of Bavaria, a most notable woman of those exciting times, and of William C. Ralston. There was
a picture of the pavilion of the first Mechanics' Exhibition, held in San Francisco in 1857. I
remember this exhibition well, as on a certain day all the school children were given free
admission, and it was as a school boy I went.

The revival gradually spent its force; and, as usual, the more unpleasant symptoms began to
assume greater prominence as the more spiritual impulse decayed. In Edwards' phraseology, 'it
began to be very sensible that the Spirit of God was gradually withdrawing from us, and after
this time Satan seemed to be set more loose, and raged in a dreadful manner' (iii. 77). From
the beginning of the excitement, the usual physical manifestation, leapings, and roarings and
convulsions (iii. 131, 205), had shown themselves; and Edwards labours to show that in this
case they were genuine marks of a Divine impulse, and not of mere enthusiasm, as in the externally
similar cases of the Quakers, the French prophets, and others (iii. 109). Now, however, more
startling phenomena presented themselves. Satan persuaded a highly respectable citizen to cut
his throat. Others saw visions, and had fancied inspirations; whilst from some hints it would
seem probable that grosser outrages on morality resulted from indiscriminate gatherings of
frenzied enthusiasts (iii. 284). Finally, people's minds were diverted by the approach of his
Excellency the Governor to settle an Indian treaty, and the building of a new meeting-house
altered the channel of enthusiasm (iii. 79). Northampton settled down into its normal tranquillity.

Some years passed, and, as religious zeal cooled, Edwards became involved in characteristic
difficulties. The pastor, it may easily be supposed, was not popular with the rising generation.
He had, as he confesses with his usual candour, 'a constitution in many respects peculiarly
unhappy, attended with flaccid solids; vapid, sizy, and scarce fluids; and a low tide of spirits;
often occasioning a kind of childish weakness and contemptibleness of speech, presence and
demeanour; with a disagreeable dulness and stiffness, much unfitting me for conversation, but
more especially for the government of a college,' which he was requested to undertake (i. 86).
He was, says his admiring biographer, 'thorough in the government of his children,' who consequently
'reverenced, esteemed, and loved him.' He adopted the plan, less popular now than then, and
even more decayed in America than in England, of 'thoroughly subduing' his children as soon
as they showed any tendency to self-will. He was a 'great enemy' to all 'vain amusements;'
and even after his children had grown up, he enforced their abstinence from such 'pernicious
practice,' and never allowed them to be out after nine at night. Any gentleman, we are happy
to add, was given proper opportunities for courting his daughters after consulting their parents,
but on condition of conforming strictly to the family regulations (i. 52, 53). This Puritan
discipline appears to have succeeded with Edwards' own family; but a gentleman with flaccid
solids, vapid fluids, and a fervent belief in hell-fire is seldom appreciated by the youth
even of a Puritan village.

Accordingly, Edwards got into trouble by endeavouring to force his own notions of discipline
amongst certain young people, belonging to 'considerable families,' who were said to indulge
in loose conversation and equivocal books. They possibly preferred 'Pamela,' which had then
just revealed a new source of amusement to the world, to awakening sermons; and Edwards' well-meant
efforts to suppress the evil set the town 'in a blaze' (i. 64). A more serious quarrel followed.
Edwards maintained the doctrine, which had been gradually dying out amongst the descendants
of the Puritans, that converted persons alone should be admitted to the Lord's Supper. The
practice had been different at Northampton; and when Edwards announced his intention of enforcing
the test of professed conversion, a vigorous controversy ensued. The dispute lasted for some
years, with much mutual recrimination. A kind of ecclesiastical council, formed from the neighbouring
churches, decided by a majority of one that he should be dismissed if his people desired it;
and the people voted for his dismissal by a majority of more than 200 to 20 (i. 69).

