After that we were both silent for some minutes. We could hear the peaceful lapping of the
water at our feet, and its boom against the rocks, and the shrieking of the sea-gulls; but
there was utter silence between us two. I felt as if it would break my heart to leave this
place, and go whither I knew not. Yet there was no alternative.

"Tardif," I said at last, "I will go first to London. It is so large a place, nobody will find
me there. Besides, they would never think of me going back to London. When I am there I will
try to get a situation as governess somewhere. I could teach little children; and if I go into
a school there will be no one to fall in love with me, like Dr. Martin. I am very sorry for him."

"Sorry for him!" repeated Tardif.

"Yes, very sorry," I replied; "it is as if I must bring trouble everywhere. You are troubled,
and I cannot help it."

"I have only had one trouble as great," he said, as if to himself, "and that was when my poor
little wife died. I wish to God I could keep you here in safety, but that is impossible."

"Quite impossible," I answered.

Yet it seemed too bad to be true. What had I done, to be driven away from this quiet little
home into the cold, wide world? Poor and friendless, after all my father's far-seeing plans
and precautions to secure me from poverty and friendlessness! What was to be my lot in that
dismal future, over the rough threshold of which I must cross to-morrow?

Tardif and I talked it all over that evening, sitting at the cottage-door until the last gleam
of daylight had faded from the sky. He had some money in hand just then, which he had intended
to invest the next time he went to Guernsey, and could see his notary. This money, thirty pounds,
he urged me to accept as a gift; but I insisted upon leaving with him my watch and chain in
pledge, until I could repay the money. It would be a long time before I could do that, I knew;
for I was resolved never to return to Richard Foster, and to endure any privation rather than
claim my property.

I left Tardif after a while, to pack up my very few possessions. We did not tell his mother
that I was going, for he said it would be better not. In the morning he would simply let her
know I was going over to Guernsey. No communication had ever passed between the old woman and
me except by signs, yet I should miss even her in that cold, careless crowd in which I was
about to be lost, in the streets of London.

We started at four in the morning, while the gray sky was dappled over with soft clouds, and
the sea itself seemed waking up from sleep, as if it too had been slumbering through the night.
The morning mist upon the cliffs made them look mysterious, as if they had some secrets to
conceal. Untrodden tracks climbed the surface of the rocks, and were lost in the fine filmy
haze. The water looked white and milky, with lines across it like the tracks on the cliffs,
which no human foot could tread; and the tide was coming back to the shore with a low, tranquil,
yet sad moan. The sea-gulls skimmed past us with their white wings, almost touching us; their
plaintive wailing seeming to warn us of the treachery and sorrow of the sea. I was not afraid
of the treachery of the sea, yet I could not bear to hear them, nor could Tardif.

We landed at one of the stone staircases running up the side of the pier at Guernsey; for we
were only just in time for the steamer. The steps were slimy and wet with seaweed, but Tardif's
hand grasped mine firmly. He pushed his way through the crowd of idlers who were watching the
lading of the cargo, and took me down immediately into the cabin.

"Good-by, mam'zelle," he said; "I must leave you. Send for me, or come to me, if you are in
trouble and I can do any thing for you. If it were to Australia, I would follow you. I know
I am only fit to be your servant, but all the same I am your friend. You have a little regard
for me, mam'zelle?"

"O Tardif!" I sobbed, "I love you very dearly."

"Now that makes me glad," he said, holding my hand between his, and looking down at me with
tears in his eyes; "you said that from your good heart, mam'zelle. When I am out alone in my
boat, I shall think of it, and in the long winter nights by the fire, when there is no little
mam'zelle to come and talk to me, I shall say to myself, 'She loves you very dearly.' Good-by,
mam'zelle. God be with you and protect you!"

"Good-by," I said, with a sore grief in my heart, "good-by, Tardif. It is very dreadful to
be alone again."

There was no time to say more, for a bell rang loudly on deck, and we heard the cry, "All friends
on shore!" Tardif put his lips to my hand, and left me. I was indeed alone.

CHAPTER THE THIRD.

IN LONDON LODGINGS.

Once more I found myself in London, a city so strange to me that I did not know the name of
any street in it. I had more acquaintance with almost every great city on the Continent. Fortunately,
Tardif had given me the address of a boarding-house, or rather a small family hotel, where
he had stayed two or three times, and I drove there at once. It was in a quiet back street,
within sound of St. Paul's clock. The hour was so late, nearly midnight, that I was looked
upon with suspicion, as a young woman travelling alone, and with little luggage. It was only
when I mentioned Tardif, whose island bearing had made him noticeable among the stream of strangers
passing through the house, that the mistress of the place consented to take me in.

This was my first difficulty, but not the last. By the advice of the mistress of the boarding-house,
I went to several governess agencies, which were advertising for teachers in the daily papers.
At most of these they would not even enter my name, as soon as I confessed my inability to
give one or two references to persons who would vouch for my general character, and my qualifications.
This was a fatal impediment, and one that had never occurred to me; yet the request was a reasonable
one, even essential. What could be more suspicious than a girl of my age without a friend to
give a guarantee of her respectability? There seemed no hope whatever of my entering into the
ill-paid ranks of governesses.

When a fortnight had passed with no opening for me, I felt it necessary to leave the boarding-house
which had been my temporary home. I must economize my funds, for I did not know how long I
must make them hold out. Wandering about the least fashionable suburbs, where lodgings would
cost least, I found a bedroom in the third story of a house in a tolerably respectable street.
The rent was six shillings a week, to be paid in advance. In this place, I entered upon a new
phase of life, so different from that in Sark that, in the delusions which solitude often brings,
I could not always believe myself the same person.

A dreamy, solitary, gloomy life; shut in upon myself, with no outlet for association with my
fellow creatures. My window opened upon a back-yard, with a row of half-built houses standing
opposite to it. These houses had been left half-finished, and were partly falling into ruin.
A row of bare, empty window-frames faced me whenever I turned my wearied eyes to the scene
without. Not a sound or sign of life was there about them. Within, my room was; small and scantily
furnished, yet there was scarcely space enough for me to move about it. There was no table
for me to take my meals at, except the top of the crazy chest of drawers, which served as my
dressing-table. One chair, broken in the back, and tied together with a faded ribbon, was the
only seat, except my box, which, set in a corner where I could lean against the wall, made
me the most comfortable place for resting. There was a little rusty grate, but it was still
summer-time, and there was no need of a fire. A fire indeed would have been insupportable,
for the sultry, breathless atmosphere of August, with the fever-heat of its sun burning in
the narrow streets and close yards, made the temperature as parching as an oven. I panted for
the cool cliffs and sweet fresh air of Sark.

In this feverish solitude one day dragged itself after another with awful monotony. As they
passed by, the only change they brought was that the sultry heat grew ever cooler, and the
long days shorter. The winter seemed inclined to set in early, and with unusual rigor, for
a month before the usual time fires became necessary. I put off lighting mine, for fear of
the cost, until my sunless little room under the roof was almost like an ice-house. A severe
cold, which made me afraid of having to call in a doctor, compelled me to have a fire; and
the burning of it, and the necessity of tending it, made it like a second person and companion
in the lonely place. Hour after hour I sat in front of it on my box, with my elbows on my knees
and my chin in my hands, watching the changeful scenery of its embers, and the exquisite motion
of the flames, and the upward rolling of the tiny columns of smoke, and the fiery, gorgeous
colors that came and went with a breath. To see the tongues of fire lap round the dull, black
coal, and run about it, and feel it, and kindle it with burning touches, and never quit it
till it was glowing and fervid, and aflame like themselves--that was my sole occupation for
hours together.

Think what a dreary life for a young girl! I was as fond of companionship, and needed love,
as much as any girl. Was it strange that my thoughts dwelt somewhat dangerously upon the pleasant,
peaceful days in Sark?

When I awoke in the morning to a voiceless, solitary, idle day, how could I help thinking of
Martin Dobrée, of Tardif, even of old Mother Renouf, with her wrinkled face and her significant
nods and becks? Martin Dobrée's pleasant face would come before me, with his eyes gleaming
so kindly under his square forehead, and his lips moving tremulously with every change of feeling.
Had he gone back to his cousin Julia again, and were they married? I ought not to feel any
sorrow at that thought. His path had run side by side with mine for a little while, but always
with a great barrier between us; and now they had diverged, and must grow farther and farther
apart, never to touch again. Yet, how my father would have loved him had he known him! How
securely he would have trusted to his care for me! But stop! There was folly and wickedness
in thinking that way. Let me make an end of that.

There was no loneliness like that loneliness. Twice a day I exchanged a word or two with the
overworked drudge of a servant in the house where I lived; but I had no other voice to speak
to me. I forgot my Latin, history, and antiquities; I could hardly recollect
whether such people as Romans ever existed.

When I visited my father, he no longer beheld his idol, nor could the ladies recognize the gallant
Jean Jacques; nay, I was so well convinced that Mr. and Miss Lambercier would scarce receive
me as their pupil, that I endeavored to avoid their company, and from that time have never seen
them. The vilest inclinations, the basest actions, succeeded my amiable amusements and even obliterated
the very remembrance of them.

I must have had, in spite of my good education, a great propensity
to degenerate, else the declension could not have followed with such
ease and rapidity, for never did so promising a Caesar so quickly
become a Laradon.

The art itself did not displease me. I had a lively taste for drawing. There was nothing displeasing
in the exercise of the graver; and as it required no very extraordinary abilities to attain
perfection as a watchcase engraver, I hoped to arrive at it. Perhaps I should have accomplished
my design, if unreasonable restraint, added to the brutality of my master, had not rendered my business
disgusting. I wasted his time, and employed myself in engraving medals, which served me and
my companions as a kind of insignia for a new invented order of chivalry, and though this differed
very little from my usual employ, I considered it as a relaxation.

Unfortunately, my master caught me at this contraband labor, and a severe beating was the consequence.
He reproached me at the same time with attempting to make counterfeit money because our medals
bore the arms of the Republic, though, I can truly aver, I had no conception of false money, and
very little of the true, knowing better how to make a Roman As than
one of our threepenny pieces.

My master's tyranny rendered insupportable that labor I should otherwise
have loved, and drove me to vices I naturally despised, such as falsehood,
idleness, and theft.

Nothing ever gave me a clearer demonstration of the difference between filial dependence and
abject slavery, than the remembrance of the change produced in me at that period. Hitherto
I had enjoyed a reasonable liberty; this I had suddenly lost.
 The compartment into which I entered was filled with a crowd of women,
waiting their turn to transact their business. Behind the counter were two or three private
boxes, in which employers might see the candidates, and question them on the spot. A lady was
at that moment examining a governess, in a loud, imperious voice which we could all hear distinctly.
My heart sank at the idea of passing through such a cross-examination as to my age, my personal
history, my friends, and a number of particulars foreign to the question of whether I was fit
for the work I offered myself for.

At last I heard the imperious voice say, "You may go. I do not think you will suit me," and
a girl of about my own age came away from the interview, pale and trembling, and with tears
stealing down her cheeks. A second girl was summoned to go through the same ordeal.

What was I to do if this person, unseen in her chamber of torture, was the lady I had been
summoned to meet?

It was a miserable sight, this crowd of poor women seeking work, and my spirits sank like lead.
A set of mournful, depressed, broken-down women! There was not one I would have chosen to be
a governess for my girls. Those who were not dispirited were vulgar and self-asserting; a class
that wished to rise above the position they were fitted for by becoming teachers. These were
laughing loudly among themselves at the cross-questioning going on so calmly within their hearing.
I shrank away into a corner, until my turn to speak to the busy clerk should come.

I had a long time to wart. The office clock pointed to half-past three before I caught the
clerk's eye, and saw him beckon me up to the counter. I had thrown back my veil, for here I
was perfectly safe from recognition. At the other end of the counter, in the compartment devoted
to curates, doctors' assistants, and others, there stood a young man in earnest consultation
with another clerk. He looked earnestly at me, but I was sure he could not know me.

"Miss Ellen Martineau?" said the clerk. That was my mother's name, and I had adopted it for
my own, feeling as if I had some right to it.

"Yes," I answered.

"Would you object to go into a French school as governess?" he inquired.

"Not in the least," I said, eagerly.

"And pay a small premium?" he added. "How much?" I asked, my spirits falling again.

"A mere trifle," he said; "about ten pounds or so for twelve months. You would perfect yourself
in French, you know; and you would gain a referee for the future."

"I must think about it," I replied.

"Well, there is the address of a lady who can give you all the particulars," he said, handing
me a written paper.

I left the office heavy-hearted. Ten pounds would be more than the half of the little store
left to me. Yet, would it not be wiser to secure a refuge and shelter for twelve months than
run the risk of hearing of some other situation? I walked slowly along the street toward the
busier thoroughfares, with my head bent down and my mind busy, when suddenly a heavy hand was
laid upon my arm, grasping it with crushing force, and a harsh, thick voice shouted triumphantly
in my ear:

"The devil! I've caught you at last!"

It was like the bitterness of death, that chill and terror sweeping over me. My husband's hot
breath was upon my cheek, and his eyes were looking closely into mine. But before I could speak
his grasp was torn away from me, and he was sent whirling into the middle of the road. I turned,
almost in equal terror, to see who had thrust himself between us. It was the stranger whom
I had seen in the agency-office. But his face was now dark with passion, and as my husband
staggered back again toward us, his hand was ready to thrust him away a second time.

"She's my wife," he stammered, trying to get past the stranger to me. By this time a knot of
spectators had formed about us, and a policeman had come up. The stranger drew my arm through
his, and faced them defiantly.

"He's a drunken vagabond!" he said; "he has just come out of those spirit-vaults. This young
lady is no more his wife than she is mine, and I know no more of her than that she has just
come away from Ridley's office, where she has been looking after a situation. Good Heavens!
cannot a lady walk through the streets of London without being insulted by a drunken scoundrel
like that"?"

"Will you give him in charge, sir?" asked the policeman, while Richard Foster was making vain
efforts to speak coherently, and explain his claim upon me. I clung to the friendly arm that
had come to my aid, sick and almost speechless with fear.

"Shall I give him in charge?" he asked me.

"I have only just heard of a situation," I whispered, unable to speak aloud.

"And you are afraid of losing it?" he said; "I understand.--Take the fellow away, policeman,
and lock him up if you can for being drunk and disorderly in the streets; but the lady won't
give him in charge. I've a good mind to make him go down on his knees and beg her pardon."

"Do, do!" said two or three voices in the crowd.

"Don't," I whispered again, "oh! take me away quickly."

He cleared a passage for us both with a vigor and decision that there was no resisting. I glanced
back for an instant, and saw my husband struggling with the policeman, the centre of the knot
of bystanders from which I was escaping. He looked utterly unlike a gay, prosperous, wealthy
man, with a well-filled purse, such as he had used to appear. He was shabby and poor enough
now for the policeman to be very hard upon him, and to prevent him from following me. The stranger
kept my hand firmly on his arm, and almost carried me into Fleet Street, where, in a minute
or two we were quite lost in the throng, and I was safe from all pursuit. 

Do not lawyers render law intricate by their speculations, &c. And
physicians, &c.

Page 209.

"The spirit and temper of the clergy, &c." What does this man think the clergy are made of? Answer
generally to what he says against councils in the ten pages before. There were a sufficient
number of passers-by to prevent it seeming lonely, but we could hear our own voices, and those
of others, even in whispers.

"This is the Temple," he said, smiling, "a fit place for a sanctuary."

"I do not know how to thank you," I answered falteringly.

"You are trembling still!" he replied; "how lucky it was that I followed you directly out of
Ridley's! If I ever come across that scoundrel again, I shall know him, you may be sure. I
wish we were a little nearer home, you should go in to rest; but our house is in Brook Street,
and we have no women-kind belonging to us. My name is John Senior. Perhaps you have heard of
my father, Dr. Senior, of Brook Street?"

"No." I replied, "I know nobody in London."

"That's bad," he said. "I wish I was Jane Senior instead of John Senior; I do indeed. Do you
feel better now, Miss Martineau?"

"How do you know my name?" I asked.

"The clerk at Ridley's called you Miss Ellen Martineau," he answered. "My hearing is very good,
and I was not deeply engrossed in my business. I heard and saw a good deal while I was there,
and I am very glad I heard and saw you. Do you feel well enough now for me to see you home?"

"Oh! I cannot let you see me home," I said, hurriedly.

"I will do just what you like best." he replied. "I have no more right to annoy you than that
drunken vagabond had. If I did, I should be more blamable than he was. Tell me what I shall
do for you then. Shall I call a cab?"

I hesitated, for my funds were low, and would be almost spent by the time I had paid the premium
of ten pounds, and my travelling expenses; yet I dared not trust myself either in the streets
or in an omnibus. I saw my new friend regard me keenly; my dress, so worn and faded, and my
old-fashioned bonnet. A smile flickered across his face. He led me back into Fleet Street,
and called an empty cab that was passing by. We shook hands warmly. There was no time for loitering;
and I told him the name of the suburb where I was living, and he repeated it to the cabman.

"All right," he said, speaking through the window, "the fare is paid, and I've taken cabby's
number. If he tries to cheat you, let me know; Dr. John Senior, Brook Street. I hope that situation
will be a good one, and very pleasant. Good-by."

"Good-by," I cried, leaning forward and looking at his face till the crowd came between us,
and I lost sight of it. It was a handsomer face than Dr. Martin Dobrée's, and had something
of the same genial, vivacious light about it. I knew it well afterward, but I had not leisure
to think much of it then.

CHAPTER THE FIFTH.

BELLRINGER STREET.

I was still trembling with the terror that my meeting with Richard Foster had aroused. A painful
shuddering agitated me, and my heart fluttered with an excess of fear which I could not conquer.
I could still feel his grasp upon my arm, where the skin was black with the mark; and there
was before my eyes the sight of his haggard and enraged face, as he struggled to get free from
the policeman. When he was sober would he recollect all that had taken place, and go to make
inquiries after me at Ridley's agency-office? Monsieur de Girardin having offered him an asylum
at Ermemonville in the spring of 1778, he and Therese went thither to reside, but for no long
time. On the 3d of July, in the same year, this perturbed spirit
at last found rest, stricken by apoplexy.

A rumor that he had committed suicide was circulated, but the evidence of trustworthy witnesses,
including a physician, effectually contradicts this accusation. His remains, first interred
in the Ile des Peupliers, were, after the Revolution, removed to the Pantheon.


Yes; I must leave London. I must take this situation, the only one open to me, in a school
in France. I should at least be assured of a home for twelve months; and, as the clerk had
said, I should perfect myself in French and gain a referee. I should be earning a character,
in fact. At present I had none, and so was poorer than the poorest servant-maid. No character,
no name, no money; who could be poorer than the daughter of the wealthy colonist, who had owned
thousands of acres in Adelaide? I almost laughed and cried hysterically at the thought of my
father's vain care and provision for my future.

But the sooner I fled from London again the better, now that I knew my husband was somewhere
in it and might be upon my track. I unfolded the paper on which was written the name of the
lady to whom I was to apply. Mrs. Wilkinson. 19 Bellringer Street. I ran down to the sitting-room,
to ask my landlady where it was, and told her, in my new hopefulness, that I had heard of a
situation in France. Bellringer Street was less than a mile away, she said. I could be there
before seven o'clock, not too late perhaps for Mrs. Wilkinson to give me an interview.

A thick yellow fog had come in with nightfall--a fog that could almost be tasted and smelt--but
it did not deter me from my object. I inquired my way of every policeman I met, and at length
entered the street. The fog hid the houses from my view, but I could see that some of the lower
windows were filled with articles for sale, as if they were shops struggling into existence.
It was not a fashionable street, and Mrs. Wilkinson could not be a very aristocratic person.

No. 19 was not difficult to find, and I pulled the bell-handle with a gentle and quiet pull,
befitting my errand. I repeated this several times without being admitted, when it struck me
that the wire might be broken. Upon that I knocked as loudly as I could upon the panels of
the broad old door; a handsome, heavy door, such as are to be found in the old streets of London,
from which the tide of fashion has ebbed away. A slight, thin child in rusty mourning opened
it, with the chain across, and asked who I was in a timid voice.

"Does Mrs. Wilkinson live here?" I asked.

"Yes," said the child.

"Who is there?" I heard a voice calling shrilly from within; not an English voice, I felt sure,
for each word was uttered distinctly and slowly.

"I am come about a school in France," I said to the child.

"Oh! I'll let you in," she answered, eagerly; "she will see you about that, I'm sure. I'm to
go with you, if you go."

She let down the chain, and opened the door. There was a dim light burning in the hall, which
looked shabby and poverty-stricken. There was no carpet upon the broad staircase, and nothing
but worn-out oil-cloth on the floor. I had only time to take in a vague general impression,
before the little girl conducted me to a room on the ground-floor. No one of our quarrels lasted
more than a quarter of an hour, and never in our lives did we make any complaint of each other.
It may be said, these remarks are frivolous; but, perhaps, a similiar
example among children can hardly be produced.



"I think I shall," I answered.

"I daren't be sure," she replied, nodding her head with an air of sagacity; "there have been
four or five governesses here, and none of them would go. You'd have to take me with you; and,
oh! it is such a lovely, beautiful place. See! here is a picture of it."

