BUGLE BLASTS,

  READ BEFORE THE
  OHIO COMMANDERY
  OF THE
  MILITARY ORDER
  OF THE
  Loyal Legion of the United States,

  BY COMPANION
  WILLIAM E. CRANE,
  Late Captain 4th O. V. C. and A. A. Adjt.-Gen.

  NOVEMBER 5, 1884.

  CINCINNATI:
  PETER G. THOMSON,
  1884.

BUGLE BLASTS.

To one who occupied a very small space in the War of the Rebellion--one who filled but a modest
position among those who sought to protect the Nation's honor and life--it is a matter of difficulty,
if not hazard, to attempt to enlighten, or even entertain, such a body as that to whom this
paper is addressed. Certainly no attempt will be made, in this case, to enlighten. If any thing
new is furnished that shall also prove interesting, the end will be subserved. There are those
among us, members of Ohio Commandery, who contributed largely to the grandeur, the magnificence,
the glory of that army of the Union from which this Order sprang. There are those among us
who made pages, aye, chapters, of history where great deeds are emphasized in blood; deeds
that "throbbed the Nation's heart." And this history is not for a day; not for our time alone.
It will go on down the ages to be read by grand-children and their grand-children, who will
point with pride to the illustrious achievements and say: "These were my ancestors who fought
in that great war and did these glorious things!" What richer legacy can you hand down? This
is fame! This is glory! And do not these come of honest ambition? But there are incidents,
episodes, deeds that come under the observation only of the few--sometimes of the individual--which,
little in themselves and seemingly inconsequential, help to make up the grand story. It is
an old, old story now, but the story has become history. A full and true history of the late
war has never been written--never will be. But little links can be picked up--even as we pick
up battered bullets on old battle-fields--and these may be welded together to make a completer
chain. And this is, perhaps, our duty, the duty of those who are permitted to enjoy the present.
Let us also make it a pleasure.

I call this paper "Bugle Blasts" simply because that seems as appropriate as anything. It refers
to some incidents and experiences in the cavalry; exciting and sometimes thrilling to those
engaged, if not interesting to him who hears the tale told.

Late in the winter of '62, when the movement on Fort Donelson was begun, Buell began his movement
on Bowling Green. The Third Division had the advance and was commanded by General O. M. Mitchell,
or "Star Mitchell" as he was called in those days. February 10th Mitchell broke camp at Bacon
Creek, Kentucky, made a forced march to Bowling Green, driving the rebel Hindman before him,
and on February 22d started for Nashville. The Fourth Ohio Cavalry, his advance regiment, was
before Nashville on the evening of the 23d, and received from the Mayor the surrender of the
city. The Third Division went into camp and the Fourth Ohio Cavalry was placed eight miles
in the front, at the outposts, on the Murfreesboro pike.

The cavalry of Buell's army had not received that attention requisite for the most efficient
service, and the Fourth Ohio was no exception. There were no carbines in the regiment--only
sabers and some unreliable revolvers. One company, however (that of the writer's), was armed
with Colt's revolving rifles. These had been secured, some weeks before, while the company
was on special duty at Upton, Ky., by requisition on Louisville, accompanied by considerable
diplomacy, etc.--the "etc" to be literally translated, and not given too liberal a construction.
I say the company was armed with this formidable weapon. Perhaps it were better to say loaded.
The horse certainly was loaded when the trooper mounted with this instrument slung on his back,
clanking saber at his side, and pistol in holster. It was cruelty to add the canteen and haversack!
But in those days we had no "S. P. C. A."

About three o'clock in the afternoon of March 8th the Colonel came to our company headquarters
and said he wanted the company to mount and go in pursuit of a body of rebel cavalry said to
be in the neighborhood. Just as the order was issued an Orderly from Mitchell's headquarters
rode up excitedly and reported that John Morgan had captured the regimental wagon-train, on
its way out to camp with supplies, burned the wagons and taken off teamsters, horses, and mules.
And this only one mile from camp--almost under our noses! Our Colonel's blood was up in an
instant, and in stentorian voice he shouted, "Company C, turn out with your rifles!" This "with
your rifles" had a flavor of business about it, and the response was not only quick, but nearly
unanimous. Evidently, there was to be "music in the air," and there was an anxiety to have
the rifles come in at the right moment with the Bass. Four other companies were ordered out.
Then came the command, "Company C, forward with the rifles!" and we dashed forward up the pike
toward Nashville. The report received was not a "grape-vine." Something near two miles from
camp, in the middle of the pike, were the ruins of our wagon-train--some wagons still burning
and some already in ashes. The teamsters and animals were gone and no signs of friend or foe.

As afterward learned, the attacking party were Lieut.-Col. Wood with a body of Mississippi
cavalry and John Morgan's command. They had first quietly taken in the pickets and then made
a dash, from the woods, on the train, capturing, with the teamsters, Capt. Braiden, an Aide
of Gen. Dumont's. Gen. Mitchell himself barely escaped capture, having ridden along the pike
about the same time. A halt was called and the road examined to ascertain which way the enemy
had gone. The trace was found leading east through the woods. One Company was sent back to
get re-enforcements, and, with them, to strike into the timber from the regimental camp to
try and intercept the raiders. The original party, headed by Col. Kennett, dashed into the
woods, and then occurred a chase the parallel to which has seldom been seen. "Forward!" was
the word, and forward it was. The woods became a thicket, sometimes apparently impassable;
but the horses, spurred by their riders, dashed at headlong speed through the trees, through
the underbrush, under branches--thorns scratching the face and hands, projecting limbs tearing
clothes and bruising bodies. You dirty sneak!" he snarled viciously.

CHAPTER IV

THE RUBY
Unless I wanted affairs to get away from me entirely, it was high
time to assume complete control of them, and immediately to abandon
all temporizing measures.

I turned Maillot about without ceremony.

"Go
with this man to the library, Stodger," I peremptorily directed. "Burke,
you come with me."

In the next ten seconds I had the big library
table between the two, Burke impassive, while Maillot glared at him
savagely. When the tracks disappear in the forest leaves, the rebel course is
now marked by plunder lost or cast aside--overcoats, canteens, saddles, blankets, the woods
are full of them. Now and then an abandoned horse is seen. Finally, we strike a narrow pike,
follow it a mile or so and learn that Morgan and Wood have divided their force, only the smaller
part having taken the course we are pursuing. We were after Morgan and the main body, so turned
back. It was precious time lost but the trail was again struck, where they had crossed the
pike, and once more a plunge was made into the timber and cedars.

For miles the trees were so thick, and the foliage so dense, that it became impossible to ride
other than single file; but, retarded as was our speed, the chase became hotter and more exciting
than ever. The Yankee blood of the hunters was at fever heat and they determined to run the
game to cover. The sight of an abandoned horse (and the hard-pressed enemy was now leaving
his own as well as our animals) was the signal for a yell that the pursued might have heard
and trembled at miles away. Then spurs were clapped into horses' flanks to urge them still
faster on; and thus the column--if column that could be called which column was none--swept,
dashed, plunged onward. Occasionally a trooper was dismounted by a projecting limb, and as
he clambered out of the way, the sympathetic cry was wafted back from some comrade, "Say, what
infantry rigiment does you'ns belong to?"

Now the Colonel's voice rings shrilly through the forest with the same old talismanic "forward!"
The refrain is taken up, sent back along the column until the rearmost rider hears and shouts
a returning echo, "We are coming, father Abraham!" No cowardice there. No lagging behind from
choice. Every man was straining nerve and muscle to get ahead. We were fast gaining on the
enemy and they knew it, trembling at every shout wafted to their ears. They grew desperate,
dug the rowels into their horses, cursed their prisoners, threatened them, shot at them to
make them keep up, and wounded one poor fellow to the death. These facts were gleaned afterward.

We had gained rapidly and thought them almost within grasp. But "the best laid plans of mice
and men, etc., etc." Desperation nerved them and they flew down the pike, scattering the stones
behind. But we ran them into the net prepared. The detachment that had gone out later from
camp struck the pike opportunely and received the enemy warmly as we drove him into their arms.
A brisk engagement followed, partly hand to hand. The fight was soon over, the enemy being
routed, scattered and driven in every direction. At the onset Morgan, with his staff and a
lot of blooded horses, broke away and escaped across Stone river. Our command being united
and ready to move an inventory of affairs and effects was taken. The enemy left four dead on
the field, four sound captives in our hands and two wounded. Of the ninety-four horses taken
we recaptured seventy-five; of the forty-eight teamsters, thirty-one, and also Capt. Braiden.
A number of rebels were wounded, but not seriously, and escaped. One of the two wounded prisoners--Warfield
by name--was related to one of the most prominent and wealthy families of Cincinnati. The other
was a Mississippian, by the name of Love. The writer visited the two in the regimental hospital
that night. Love had a terrible wound, and knew it was mortal, but his last breath was expended
in cursing and execrating the "Yankees" in the most horrible and vile language tongue could utter.

The chase being over, the command returned--all except the Company with the rifles, who were
to continue the pursuit. Pushing on again we struck the Murfreesboro pike, near Lavergne, and
got on the heels of one detachment, but these, knowing the country, broke for the cedars and
escaped. We saw no more of them and returned to camp at 8 P. M., after a ride of about thirty
miles, part of this on a keen run.

About a month after the incidents just related, the Fourth Ohio Cavalry had the honor of capturing
Huntsville, Ala., the "Queen City of the Mountains." About the middle of March, 1862, Gen.
Mitchell's Division of Buell's army left Nashville and pushed south to Murfreesboro, thence
to Shelbyville, following the rebel Johnston, who had destroyed all bridges behind him. From
Shelbyville a rapid advance was made to Fayetteville, then a hot-bed of Secession. Turchin's
Brigade, with Simonson's Battery and the Fourth Ohio Cavalry, had the van. The Fourth broke
camp early that morning, April 9th, at the loyal town of Shelbyville, with a three o'clock
reveille and timely "Boots and Saddles." Passing by the infantry and Simonson's guns, the regiment
rode briskly on to Fayetteville, through the town, over the stone bridge at Elk river, and
camped on the same spot where Gen. Jackson had camped fifty years before, in 1812, a spot convenient,
pleasant, and historic. News of the victory at Corinth reached us on the 10th, and there was
enthusiastic joy and joyful enthusiasm throughout the camp. The command set out at once for
Huntsville, the cavalry leading. Our route lay along a circuitous dirt road and through a mountainous
country. Twelve miles brought us to the State line, marked by a high pole bearing the tattered
remnants of a rebel flag.

Now we are in Alabama. The plantations stretch out in beautiful landscape and, as the innumerable
negroes grin at us from every field and fence, we are forcibly reminded that we are "in the
land of cotton." Halting at sundown to feed and await the remainder of the division, the cavalry
again moved on rapidly and went into bivouac at 10 P. M. At two in the morning a detail of
picked men was made to ride across the country and tear up the track on the Memphis & Charleston
Railroad leading east from Huntsville. Pickets were also thrown out to intercept all travel
to and from the town. At four o'clock on the morning of April 11th the artillery and cavalry
were in motion for Huntsville, eight miles away. Nearing town the battery galloped on to the
front, the Fourth Ohio following close. It was a matter of all importance that the place should
be reached before any trains should leave; and when, two miles off, the whistle of a locomotive
sounded on our ears, every thing was excitement and every horse put to its speed. Such a clatter
never before awoke the echoes among those Alabama hills. Yonder curls the smoke and here comes
the engine with but a single car, steaming eastward across the plain. Simonson wheels a gun,
lets fly a solid shot, and the engine slackens speed, hesitates (as if to ask the meaning of
all this), and puffs quickly on. A shell speeds after it but fails in its intent. However,
the train can not escape altogether if our railroad wreckers have safely reached their trysting-place.
The locomotive may be ditched and lost to us for service, but will hardly carry the news to
Leadbetter, at Bridgeport, that the Yankees have come.

Company A has orders and in an instant a dozen troopers have dismounted, thrown down the stake-and-rider
fence, and away goes the company across the plain in hot pursuit--horse-flesh vieing with steam!
But the iron-limbed courser had the best bottom and whirled along amid a shower of bullets--escaping
for the time, but only to become prey to the detachment up the road. Another whistle sounds
and another train comes in sight. Simonson's bull dog again barks--again ineffectually. A repeated
effort is more successful, and a shell crashes through the cab. The cavalry company is on hand
this time, and bang! bang! crack! crack! go the carbines and revolvers and the balls whistle
about the engineer's head and rattle against the cars. The train stops and the passengers,
rebel soldiers and officers, leap to the ground and endeavor to escape. A few succeed, but
the majority are taken. The train is boarded and brought back. Meanwhile the column dashes
onward and goes whirling into Huntsville. At the station is another train just leaving, with
troops who are going "on to Richmond." A cocked pistol held at the engineer's head has the
effect of shutting off steam and the train is placed under guard. The regiment gallops up the
street and through the town. Pickets are thrown out on all the roads.

Black faces were at every door and window; blacks were at the gates, and blacks were on the
streets; but the "Chivalry" had evidently deserted the place, except the few who viciously
peered at us through the blinds, robed in white. Perhaps it was too early for white folks,
and our call was untimely on that bright April morning--the clock had not yet struck six--and
perhaps they were too high toned to suffer Yankees to look upon their faces. After reconnoitering
the streets and gathering in a few wearers of the gray the regiment was apportioned to various
duties.

Another train had just pulled in, all unconscious of the reception awaiting. This, too, was
filled with soldiery from below, bound for Richmond--four officers and 180 privates. What importance
is attached to the second coming of Christ! Over and over again it is stated distinctly. It
is the grand climax unto which all the series of events in this book leads.
"Are you ready, waiting for the Lord? The locomotives themselves were of incalculable value, and more than paid for the
expedition if there had been no other fruits; for they enabled Gen. Mitchell to push his troops
rapidly in every direction and hurry forward supplies. Without them many of the results which
soon followed could not have been accomplished.

From the Sheriff the keys of the jail were demanded and a large number of prisoners, loyal
Tennesseans mostly, were liberated. Some of these at once enlisted in the Union army. Huntsville
was ours "and fairly won," without a casualty on our side or loss of any kind. * * *

In August, 1864, the army constituting "The Military Division of the Mississippi," commanded
by Gen. Sherman, lay in front of Atlanta. The effort to flank Hood out of his position had
not been successful and Gen. Sherman announced a new plan of operations. In the new deal Gen.
Thomas was assigned to the left, Schofield given the right, and Howard the center. Of the Cavalry,
Gen. Garrard commanded the Second Division and Gen. Kilpatrick the Third. A raid of formidable
proportions was projected on the Macon railroad, and Kilpatrick was to engineer this. Gen.
Sherman had said, in a message to Thomas, Aug. 16th, "I do think our cavalry should now break
the Macon road good." This raid of Kilpatrick's, though not as full in fruition as was hoped,
was of great importance and is the subject of the following chapter. It was an undertaking
brilliant in conception, thrilling in its experience, and deserving of historical record. Of
the 2d Cavalry Division one Brigade was absent. The 1st and 2d Brigades traveled all night
the 17th of August to Sand Town, where Kilpatrick was with the 3d Division. On the morning
of the 18th the following circular was published.

     "HEADQUARTERS CAVALRY EXPEDITION, }
     DEP'T CUMBERLAND,                 }
     SAND TOWN, GA., Aug. 18, '64.     }

     Soldiers! You have been selected from the Cavalry Divisions of the
     Army of the Cumberland; you have been well organized, equipped, and
     rendred formidable, at great expense, to accomplish an object vital
     to the success of our cause. I am about to lead you, not on a
     raid, but on a deliberate and well combined attack upon the
     enemy's communications, in order that he may be unable to supply
     his army in Atlanta. Two expeditions have already failed. We are
     the last Cavalry hope of the army. Let each soldier remember this
     and resolve to accomplish this, the great object for which so much
     is risked, or die trying!

     (Signed.) J. KILPATRICK,
     Brig.-Gen. Commanding."

At dark the two divisions (really, they were only parts of two divisions) moved southward.
The expedition was designed to be a secret one, and there were no bugle blasts to awaken the
echoes of the still night--bugle blasts that so thrill through the trooper's blood and nerve
him for the mount, the march, or the fray.

The 3d Division had the advance, and with it was the 10th Wisconsin Battery of four pieces.
The 2d had two sections of the "Chicago Board of Trade Battery." Quietly as all had been planned,
the movement was already known in the rebel camp and our advance encountered an impeding force
early in the march. These fell back as we advanced but continued harassing and delaying the
column, and skirmishing was kept up all night, a bright moon rendering some aid to both sides.

Friday morning, the 19th, the 2d Division struck the Atlantic & West Point Railroad. Men from
the advance division were already at work tearing up the track, and one regiment--the 1st Ohio--was
detailed from the 2d Division to assist. A mile of track was soon destroyed. Meanwhile, the
rear of the moving column (Minty's Brigade) was attacked by a force from the woods on the left
with musketry and artillery. The fighting soon became heavy. The 1st Ohio was ordered up to
Minty's relief, and a systematic attack made with good results, the enemy retiring from sight.
The march was resumed, but the enemy again showed himself, and, selecting a good position on
the flank, opened up a lively salvo of artillery, playing his pieces well. Shells screamed
through the air over the moving column, and the 3d and 4th Ohio suffered seriously. Considerable
time was consumed in brushing off this force, whose evident aim was to harass and not fight,
but they were finally routed. From prisoners taken we learned that Ross' Cavalry Brigade was
our principal opponent.

A detachment of 400 men was now sent forward to Griffin to destroy the track there. The 2d
Brigade of the 2d Division was ordered forward and, on the Jonesboro road, struck the enemy.
Skirmishing continued nearly all day, the enemy falling back slowly and showing a disposition
to impede our progress as much as possible. At Flint river a strong force was in position on
the further bank and at the town of Jonesboro. Pressing them with energy and our artillery
playing lively airs they were driven from their works, and we advanced across the bridge which
they had attempted to burn. Moving into and through the town the depot was fired and the track
destroyed.

The command now took a brief rest, having eaten nothing all day and not having slept for over
twenty-four hours. Marching again at 11, the 2d Division passed south and reached the McDonogh
road at daylight. At Pittsburgh again turned south toward the railroad. The first few miles
developed nothing of interest, but, finally, during a temporary halt, the rear guard was attacked
and the 1st Ohio sent back to its support. The enemy developed considerable strength and the
3d and 4th Ohio were hurried to the scene. A sharp engagement, but brief, followed; the opposing
force was routed and the column again moved on--moved on to encounter something of a foe more
determined and with better staying qualities. Minty led, and, striking the Macon road near
Lovejoy's Station, he dismounted the 4th Michigan to tear up the track. Hardly had operations
commenced when the regiment was suddenly and impetuously attacked in front and driven back.
Simultaneously an attack was made in force on the right flank, which was met by the 7th Pennsylvania. The
Bible does not claim to be inspired; it does not claim to be infallible. No writer of one book
is authorized to speak for the author of any other book. One verse is sometimes referred to
as meaning something. The writer of the last book in the Bible utters a curse against anybody
who should presume to add to or take from the words of that book. He does not say that the book
is infallible; he simple curses anybody that interferes with it,
as Shakespeare uttered a curse against anybody who interfered with
his bones. In front the enemy was resolutely held for awhile and
our men then fell back to the works, whence a fire was opened that staggered the advancing
lines and threw them into some confusion. This enabled Lieut. Bennett, of the battery, to bring
off his two pieces which were near being lost. In this affair we had several killed and wounded;
of the latter two officers of the 4th Ohio.

It was now apparent that not only was there a formidable force of cavalry in the rear, but
a large body of infantry, with cavalry and cannon, in front. The dismounted regiments fell
back and remounted under severe musketry. Kilpatrick called a hurried council of the brigade
commanders. The foe was not only in front and rear but our flanks were being enveloped. There
was but one advisable course--to make a quick, vigorous, desperate charge, break their lines,
and cut our way out. The decision was prompt. The force behind was evidently the weaker and
was, therefore, chosen for the attack.

The two brigades of the 2d Division were formed in two ranks, stretching across a great corn-field,
while the 3d Division formed behind them. Sabers were drawn and, at the bugle signal, all galloped
forward. The Confederates saw the movement and tried valiantly to stem the onset. Shells screamed
overhead and grape and canister rattled like hail. Their smaller arms, too, played briskly.
It was a scene of wild and fierce excitement. Owing to the irregular nature of the ground,
after leaving the corn-field no regular alignment was possible, and it soon became a charge
of squadrons, companies, squads, and single riders. Bullets whistled and comrades fell, but
the command spurred on to increased speed--shouted, yelled and still dashed on. Over fences
and gullies, and then a wide ravine; through brush and dense timber, whose gnarled and low-hanging
branches literally tore men from their saddles; across a great marsh where horses almost swamped--onward
the resistless force rushes and strikes the enemy fully and fairly. Sabers flash in the air,
pistols and carbines belch forth sulphur smoke. The unexpected movement, the sudden and impetuous
charge, as of victorious ranks rather than desperate battalions essaying a forlorn hope, had
amazed the confronting foe; the fierce onset shattered his lines; he resists stubbornly for
a little while, then gives ground, turns to escape, and is routed completely. But, meanwhile,
his fire on our flank had been sharp and we suffered severely. On a knoll on the left were
two guns belching out grape and canister. So galling was their fire that the charge was greatly
retarded on that flank. These must be silenced, and a force dashes up the aclivity "into the
very jaws of death." Every gunner is killed or captured.

At such a time artillery was an awkward encumbrance, yet one piece was brought off safely.
Prisoners, too, were an encumbrance, and few were taken along. They were simply disarmed and
left on the field where captured. Had time and circumstance permitted the rebel battery could
have been brought off as a trophy, and some hundreds of prisoners. Consternation had evidently
seized the rebel ranks, for they threw down their arms by scores and begged for quarter. Our
business was to cut through and get out, and this was done, though many a noble fellow was
left behind. Among those who fell that day was Capt. Wm. H. Scott, an associate of the writer
on Gen. Eli Long's staff--not killed outright, but mortally wounded. "A braver spirit never
laid its life upon its country's altar." He was struck by a grape shot and fell from his horse,
but, in that mad ride--in the face of that deadly storm of lead and iron--it were death to
halt even though a dear friend had fallen.

The command was naturally much scattered and much time occupied in reforming for the march.
This enabled Cleburne to close up on us. In the new formation Long's Brigade had the rear of
column and the 3d Ohio the post of danger. This regiment was soon attacked and shells were
thrown into our column. Gen. Long remained with the 3d to direct its movements. The position
held by the regiment was a good one, being protected by rail breast-works (the men were afoot)
and below a declivity extending into a marsh; beyond this a creek. As the rebels came across
the creek they opened a vigorous fire, and, simultaneously, another line moved up at close
quarters on the right. The 3d held its fire until the enemy reached the marsh, and then every
carbine cracked. Just at this juncture Long's horse was struck (for he had remained mounted),
and a moment after he himself received two wounds, through wrist and thigh, which compelled
him to leave the field. The 3d Ohio fell slowly back, leaving the dead bodies of several of
their comrades, including Lieut. Garfield. They were then relieved by a regiment from Minty's
Brigade. The column being put in motion, moved on to McDonogh and thence to Cotton river, the
enemy following and harassing until night-fall.

Sunday morning, August 21st, we crossed Cotton river by swimming, the stream being much swollen.
One trooper was drowned and a piece of artillery had to be abandoned. The enemy, continuing
the pursuit, had pressed hard on the rear all morning, but a safe crossing was finally effected
and then South river was reached and crossed. At this place a large mill was burned and the
bridge destroyed. Thence the march was via Lithonia, Latimar's and Decatur to Buck Head, which
place was reached on the evening of Monday, August 22d.

Thus ended the famous "Kilpatrick Raid," an expedition wisely planned and full of "great expectations."
That it did not produce the fruits hoped for was not the fault of any of "our folks." Lay the
blame at the door of the Confederacy. It accomplished much good and the Confederate loss was
large. Statistics are not at hand from which to give our casualties in full, but Long's Brigade
lost seven officers and eighty-seven men in killed, wounded, and prisoners. The charge at Lovejoy's
Station was one of the grandest, most extensive, and brilliant cavalry charges of the entire
war. Kilpatrick, in his enthusiasm, claimed that nothing equal to it had ever been witnessed.
It certainly has few equals, and hence has been deemed worthy of elaborate review in these pages.

Passages in italics are indicated by underscore.

The following misprint has been corrected: "momnet" corrected to "moment" (page 5).

Other than the correction listed above, printer's inconsistencies have been retained.

