"Because you were angry, you were satisfied to disgrace me before all the people there. What
has been done cannot be helped. I must bear it. I cannot stop people from talking and thinking
evil. But I will never say that I think evil of myself by hiding myself. I don't know what
you mean by privacy. I want no privacy."

"Why did you dance with that man?"

"Because it was so arranged."

"You had told me it was some one else?"

"Do you mean to accuse me of a falsehood, George? First one arrangement had been made, and
then another."

"I had been told before how it was to be."

"Who told you? I can only answer for myself."

"And why did you waltz?"

"Because you had withdrawn your foolish objection. Why should I not dance like other people?
Papa does not think it wrong?"

"Your father has nothing to do with it."

"If you ill-treat me, George, papa must have something to do with it. Do you think he will
see me disgraced before a room full of people, as you did yesterday, and hold his tongue? Of
course you are my husband, but he is still my father; and if I want protection he will protect me."

"I will protect you," said Lord George, stamping his foot upon the floor.

"Yes; by burying me somewhere. That is what you say you mean to do. And why? Because you get
some silly nonsense into your head, and then make yourself and me ridiculous in public. If
you think I am what you seem to suspect, you had better let papa have me back again,--though
that is so horrible that I can hardly bring myself to think of it. If you do not think so,
surely you should beg my pardon for the affront you put on me last night."

This was a way in which he had certainly not looked at the matter. Beg her pardon! He, as a
husband, beg a wife's pardon under any circumstances! And beg her pardon for having carried
her away from a house in which she had manifestly disobeyed him. No, indeed. But then he was
quite as strongly opposed to that other idea of sending her back to her father, as a man might
send a wife who had disgraced herself. Anything would be better than that. If she would only
acknowledge that she had been indiscreet, they would go down together into Brothershire, and
all might be comfortable. Though she was angry with him, obstinate and rebellious, yet his
heart was softened to her because she did not throw the woman's love-letter in his teeth. He
had felt that here would be his great difficulty, but his difficulty now arose rather from
the generosity which kept her silent on the subject. "What I did," he said, "I did to protect you."

"Such protection was an insult." Then she left the room before he had tasted his tea or his
toast. She had heard her father's knock, and knew that she would find him in the drawing-room.
She had made up her mind how she would tell the story to him; but when she was with him he
would have no story told at all. He declared that he knew everything, and spoke as though there
could be no doubt as to the heinousness, or rather, absurdity, of Lord George's conduct. "It
is very sad,--very sad, indeed," he said; "one hardly knows what one ought to do."

"He wants to go down--to Cross Hall."

"That is out of the question. You must stay out your time here and then come to me, as you
arranged. He must get out of it by saying that he was frightened by thinking that you had fallen."

"It was not that, papa."

"Of course it was not; but how else is he to escape from his own folly?"

"You do not think that I have been--wrong--with Captain De Baron?"

"I! God bless you, my child. I think that you have been wrong! He cannot think so either. Has
he accused you?"

Then she told him, as nearly as she could, all that had passed between them, including the
expression of his desire that she should not waltz, and his subsequent permission given at
Lady Brabazon's. "Pish!" he ejaculated. It missed its objective and wounded one of the prisoners.
The American rifle swung quickly and the grenade-thrower pitched forward with the grunt of a man
struck heavily in the stomach pit.

The German major blew his whistle.
 Then he
spoke of what he himself would do. "I must see him, and if he will not hear reason you must
go with me to the Deanery without him."

"Don't separate us, papa."

"God forbid that there should be any permanent separation. If he be obstinate, it may be well
that you should be away from him for a week or two. Why can't a man wash his dirty linen at
home, if he has any to wash. His, at any rate, did not come to him with you."

Then there was a very stormy scene in the dining-room between the two men. The Dean, whose
words were infinitely more ready and available than those of his opponent, said very much the
most, and by the fierce indignation of his disclaimers, almost prevented the husband from dwelling
on the wife's indiscretion. "I did not think it possible that such a man as you could have
behaved so cruelly to such a girl."

"I was not cruel; I acted for the best."

"You degraded yourself, and her too."

"I degraded no one," said Lord George.

"It is hard to think what may now best be done to cure the wound which she has been made to
suffer. I must insist on this,--that she must not be taken from town before the day fixed for
her departure."

"I think of going to-morrow," said Lord George, gloomily.

"Then you must go alone, and I must remain with her."

"Certainly not;--certainly not."

"She will not go. She shall not be made to run away. Though everything have to be told in the
public prints, I will not submit to that. I suppose you do not dare to tell me that you suspect
her of any evil?"

"She has been indiscreet."

"Suppose I granted that,--which I don't,--is she to be ground into dust in this way for indiscretion?
Have not you been indiscreet?" Lord George made no direct answer to this question, fearing
that the Dean had heard the story of the love-letter; but of that matter the Dean had heard
nothing. "In all your dealings with her, can you tax yourself with no deviation from wisdom?"

"What a man does is different. No conduct of mine can blemish her name."

"But it may destroy her happiness,--and if you go on in this way it will do so."

During the whole of that day the matter was discussed. Lord George obstinately insisted on
taking his wife down to Cross Hall, if not on the next day, then on the day after. But the
Dean, and with the Dean the young wife, positively refused to accede to this arrangement. The
Dean had his things brought from the inn to the house in Munster Court, and though he did not
absolutely declare that he had come there for his daughter's protection, it was clear that
this was intended. In such an emergency Lord George knew not what to do. Though the quarrel
was already very bitter, he could not quite tell his father-in-law to leave the house; and
then there was always present to his mind a feeling that the Dean had a right to be there in
accordance with the pecuniary arrangement made. The Dean would have been welcome to the use
of the house and all that was in it, if only Mary would have consented to be taken at once
down to Cross Hall. But being under her father's wing, she would not consent. She pleaded that
by going at once, or running away as she called it, she would own that she had done something
wrong, and she was earnest in declaring that nothing should wring such a confession from her.
Everybody, she said, knew that she was to stay in London to the end of June. Everybody knew
that she was then to go to the Deanery. It was not to be borne that people should say that
her plans had been altered because she had danced the Kappa-kappa with Captain De Baron. She
must see her friends before she went, or else her friends would know that she had been carried
into banishment. In answer to this, Lord George declared that he, as husband, was paramount.
This Mary did not deny, but, paramount as the authority was, she would not, in this instance,
be governed by it.

It was a miserable day to them all. Many callers came, asking after Lady George, presuming
that her speedy departure from the ball had been caused by her accident. No one was admitted,
and all were told that she had not been much hurt. There were two or three stormy scenes between
the Dean and his son-in-law, in one of which Lord George asked the Dean whether he conceived
it to be compatible with his duty as a clergyman of the Church of England to induce a wife
to disobey her husband. In answer to this, the Dean said that in such a matter the duty of
a Church dignitary was the same as that of any other gentleman, and that he, as a gentleman,
and also as a dignitary, meant to stand by his daughter. She refused to pack up, or to have
her things packed. When he came to look into himself, he found that he had not power to bid
the servants do it in opposition to their mistress. That the power of a husband was paramount
he was well aware, but he did not exactly see his way to the exercise of it. At last he decided
that he, at any rate, would go down to Cross Hall. If the Dean chose to create a separation
between his daughter and her husband, he must bear the responsibility.

On the following day he did go down to Cross Hall, leaving his wife and her father in Munster
Court without any definite plans.

CHAPTER XL.

AS TO BLUEBEARD.

When Lord George left his own house alone he was very wretched, and his wife, whom he left
behind him, was as wretched as himself. Of course the matter had not decided itself in this
way without very much absolute quarrelling between them. Lord George had insisted, had stamped
his foot, and had even talked of force. Mary, prompted by her father, had protested that she
would not run away from the evil tongues of people who would be much more bitter in her absence
than they would dare to be if she remained among them. He, when he found that his threat of
forcible abduction was altogether vain, had to make up his mind whether he also would remain.
But both the Dean and his wife had begged that he would do so, and he would not even seem to
act in obedience to them. So he went, groaning much in spirit, puzzled to think what story
he should tell to his mother and sisters, terribly anxious as to the future, and in spirit
repentant for the rashness of his conduct at the ball. Before he was twenty miles out of London
he was thinking with infinite regret of his love for his wife, already realising the misery
of living without her, almost stirred to get out at the next station and return by the first
train to Munster Court. In this hour of his sorrow there came upon him a feeling of great hatred
for Mrs. Houghton. He almost believed that she had for her own vile purposes excited Captain
De Baron to make love to his wife. And then, in regard to that woman, his wife had behaved
so well! Surely something was due to so much generosity. And then, when she had been angry
with him, she had been more beautiful than ever. What a change had those few months in London
made in her! She had lost her childish little timidities, and had bloomed forth a beautiful
woman. He had no doubt as to her increased loveliness, and had been proud to think that all
had acknowledged it. But as to the childish timidity, perhaps he would have preferred that
it should not have been so quickly or so entirely banished. Even at Brotherton he hankered
to return to London; but, had he done so, the Brotherton world would have known it. He put
himself into a carriage instead, and had himself driven through the park to Cross Hall.

All this occurred on the day but one subsequent to the ball, and he had by the previous post
informed Lady Sarah that he was coming. But in that letter he had said that he would bring
his wife with him, and on his immediate arrival had to answer questions as to her unexpected
absence. "Her father was very unwilling that she should come," he said.

"But I thought he was at the hotel," said Lady Sarah.

"He is in Munster Court, now. To tell the truth I am not best pleased that it should be so;
but at the last moment I did not like to contradict her. I hate London and everything in it.
She likes it, and as there was a kind of bargain made I could not well depart from it."

"And you have left her alone with her father in London," said Lady Susanna, with a tone of
pretended dismay.

"How can she be alone if her father is with her," answered Lord George, who did not stand in
awe of Lady Susanna as he did of Lady Sarah. Nothing further at the moment was said, but all
the sisters felt that there was something wrong.

"I don't think it at all right that Mary should be left with the Dean," said the old lady to
her second daughter. But the old lady was specially prejudiced against the Dean as being her
eldest son's great enemy. Before the day was over Lord George wrote a long letter to his wife,--full
of affection indeed, but still more full of covert reproaches. He did not absolutely scold
her; but he told her that there could be no happiness between a wife and a husband unless the
wife would obey, and he implored her to come to him with as little delay as possible. If she
would only come, all should be right between them. 

She came unfurnished with even decent apparel, and her new lord had to supply her forthwith with
necessary clothing. In a subsequent page, when he comes to detail the purchases which he was,
in consequence, obliged to make for his bride, he gives full vent to his feelings on this niggardly
conduct of the father, and, in recording the costs of his own outfit, his very first words have
a smack of bitterness in them, which is somewhat ludicrous--

"Medio
de donte leporum Surgit amari aliquid."
And this, though he understood it to contain rebellion against the Germains generally, had
a pleasant flavour with him as acknowledging so completely his own power. She had said to her
father, and unfortunately to Mrs. Houghton when Mrs. Houghton was her friend, that she was
not going to do what all the Germain women told her; but she had always spoken of her husband's
wishes as absolutely imperative. Now she was in open mutiny against her husband, and, as she
thought of it, it seemed to her to be almost impossible that peace should be restored between them.

"I think I will go down very soon," she said to her father, after she had received her husband's
letter.

"What do you call very soon?"

"In a day or two."

"Do not do anything of the kind. Stay here till the appointed time comes. It is only a fortnight
now. I have made arrangements at Brotherton, so that I can be with you till then. After that
come down to me. Of course your husband will come over to you at the deanery."

"But if he shouldn't come?"

"Then he would be behaving very wickedly. But, of course, he will come. He is not a man to
be obstinate in that fashion."

"I do not know that, papa."

"But I do. You had better take my advice in this matter. Of course I do not want to foster
a quarrel between you and your husband."

"Pray,--pray don't let there be a quarrel."

"Of course not. But the other night he lost his head, and treated you badly. You and I are
quite willing to forgive and forget all that. Any man may do a foolish thing, and men are to
be judged by general results rather than single acts."

"He is very kind to me--generally."

"Just so; and I am not angry with him in the least. But after what occurred it would be wrong
that you should go away at once. You felt it yourself at the moment."

"But anything would be better than quarrelling, papa."

"Almost anything would be better than a lasting quarrel with your husband; but the best way
to avoid that is to show him that you know how to be firm in such an emergency as this." She
was, of course, compelled by her father's presence and her father's strength to remain in town,
but she did so longing every hour to pack up and be off to Cross Hall. She had very often doubted
whether she could love her husband as a husband ought to be loved, but now, in her present
trouble, she felt sure of her own heart. She had never been really on bad terms with him before
since their marriage, and the very fact of their separation increased her tenderness to him
in a wonderful degree. She answered his letter with Language full of love and promises and
submission, loaded with little phrases of feminine worship, merely adding that papa thought
she had better stay in town till the end of the month. There was not a word of reproach in
it. She did not allude to his harsh conduct at the ball, nor did she write the name of Mrs.
Houghton.

Her father was very urgent with her to see all her friends, to keep any engagements previously
made, to be seen at the play, and to let all the world know by her conduct that she was not
oppressed by what had taken place. There was some intention of having the Kappa-kappa danced
again, as far as possible by the same people. Lord Giblet was to retire in favour of some more
expert performer, but the others were supposed to be all worthy of an encore. But of course
there arose a question as to Lady George. There could be no doubt that Lord George had disapproved
very strongly of the Kappa-kappa. The matter got to the Dean's ears, and the Dean counselled
his daughter to join the party yet again. "What would he say, papa?" The Dean was of opinion
that in such case Lord George would say and do much less than he had said and done before.
According to his views, Lord George must be taught that his wife had her privileges as well
as he his. This fresh difficulty dissolved itself because the second performance was fixed
for a day after that on which it had been long known that Lady George was to leave London;
and even the Dean did not propose that she should remain in town after that date with a direct
view to the Kappa-kappa.

She was astonished at the zeal with which he insisted that she should go out into the gay world.
He almost ridiculed her when she spoke of economy in her dress, and seemed to think that it
was her duty to be a woman of fashion. He still spoke to her from time to time of the Popenjoy
question, always asserting his conviction that, whatever the Marquis might think, even if he
were himself deceived through ignorance of the law, the child would be at last held to be illegitimate.
"They tell me, too," he said, "that his life is not worth a year's purchase."

"Poor little boy!"

"Of course, if he had been born as the son of the Marquis of Brotherton ought to be born, nobody
would wish him anything but good."

"I don't wish him anything but good," said Mary.

"But as it is," continued the Dean, apparently not observing his daughter's remark, "everybody
must feel that it would be better for the family that he should be out of the way. Nobody can
think that such a child can live to do honour to the British peerage."

"He might be well brought up."

"He wouldn't be well brought up. He has an Italian mother and Italian belongings, and everything
around him as bad as it can be. But the question at last is one of right. He was clearly born
when his mother was reputed to be the wife, not of his father, but of another man. That cock-and-bull
story which we have heard may be true. It is possible. But I could not rest in my bed if I
did not persevere in ascertaining the truth." The Dean did persevere, and was very constant
in his visits to Mr. Battle's office. At this time Miss Tallowax came up to town, and she also
stayed for a day or two in Munster Court. What passed between the Dean and his aunt on the
subject Mary, of course, did not hear; but she soon found that Miss Tallowax was as eager as
her father, and she learned that Miss Tallowax had declared that the inquiry should not languish
from want of funds. Miss Tallowax was quite alive to the glory of the Brotherton connection.

As the month drew to an end Mary, of course, called on all her London friends. Her father was
always eager to know whom she saw, and whether any allusion was made by any of them to the
scene at the ball. But there was one person, who had been a friend, on whom she did not call,
and this omission was observed by the Dean. "Don't you ever see Mrs. Houghton now?" he asked.

"No, papa," said Mary, with prompt decision.

"Why not?"

"I don't like her."

"Why don't you like her? You used to be friends. Have you quarrelled?"

"Yes; I have quarrelled with her."

"What did she do?" Mary was silent. "Is it a secret?"

"Yes, papa; it is a secret. I would rather you would not ask. But she is a nasty vile creature,
and I will never speak to her again."

"That is strong language, Mary."

"It is. And now that I have said that, pray don't talk about her any more."

The Dean was discreet, and did not talk about Mrs. Houghton any more; but he set his mind to
work to guess, and guessed something near the truth. Of course he knew that his son-in-law
had professed at one time to love this lady when she had been Miss De Baron, and he had been
able to see that subsequently to that they had been intimate friends. "I don't think, my dear,"
he said, laughing, "that you can be jealous of her attractions." 

Subconsciously, a great and a genuine appreciation of all that had been done for him was pushing
him onward.
Unaided, he had solved the first. It was education. How keenly, within
the few months that had passed, had he realized his own need!

The day but one before she was to leave town Mrs. Montacute Jones came to her. She had seen
her kind old friend once or twice since the catastrophe at the ball, but always in the presence
of other persons. Now they were alone together. "Well, my dear," said Mrs. Jones, "I hope you
have enjoyed your short season. We have all been very fond of you."

"You have been very kind to me, Mrs. Jones."

"I do my best to make young people pleasant, my dear. You ought to have liked it all, for I
don't know anybody who has been so much admired. His Royal Highness said the other night that
you were the handsomest woman in London."

"His Royal Highness is an old fool," said Mary, laughing.

"He is generally thought to be a very good judge in that matter. You are going to keep the
house, are you not?"

"Oh, yes; I think there is a lease."

"I am glad of that. It is a nice little house, and I should be sorry to think that you are
not coming back."

"We are always to live here half the year, I believe," said Mary. "That was agreed when we
married, and that's why I go away now."

"Lord George, I suppose, likes the country best?"

"I think he does. I don't, Mrs. Jones."

"They are both very well in their way, my dear. I am a wicked old woman, who like to have everything
gay. I never go out of town till everything is over, and I never come up till everything begins.
We have a nice place down in Scotland, and you must come and see me there some autumn. And
then we go to Rome. It's a pleasant way of living, though we have to move about so much."

"It must cost a great deal of money?"

"Well, yes. One can't drive four-in-hand so cheap as a pair. Mr. Jones has a large income."
This was the first direct intimation Mary had ever received that there was a Mr. Jones. "But
we weren't always rich. When I was your age I hadn't nearly so nice a house as you. Indeed,
I hadn't a house at all, for I wasn't married, and was thinking whether I would take or reject
a young barrister of the name of Smith, who had nothing a year to support me on. You see I
never got among the aristocratic names, as you have done."

"I don't care a bit about that."

"But I do. I like Germains, and Talbots, and Howards, and so does everybody else, only so many
people tell lies about it. I like having lords in my drawing-room. They look handsomer and
talk better than other men. That's my experience. And you are pretty nearly sure with them
that you won't find you have got somebody quite wrong."

"I know a lord," said Mary, "who isn't very right. That is, I don't know him, for I never saw him."

"You mean your wicked brother-in-law. I should like to know him of all things. He'd be quite
an attraction. I suppose he knows how to behave like a gentleman?"

"I'm not so sure of that. He was very rough to papa."

"Ah;--yes. I think we can understand that, my dear. Your father hasn't made himself exactly
pleasant to the Marquis. Not that I say he's wrong. I think it was a pity, because everybody
says that the little Lord Popenjoy will die. You were talking of me and my glories, but long
before you are my age you will be much more glorious. You will make a charming Marchioness."

"I never think about it, Mrs. Jones; and I wish papa didn't. Why shouldn't the little boy live?
I could be quite happy enough as I am if people would only be good to me and let me alone."

"Have I distressed you?" asked the old woman.

"Oh, dear no;--not you."

"You mean what happened at my house the other night?"

"I didn't mean anything particular, Mrs. Jones. But I do think that people sometimes are very
ill-natured."

"I think, you know, that was Lord George's doing. He shouldn't have taken you off so suddenly.
It wasn't your fault that the stupid man tripped. I suppose he doesn't like Captain De Baron?"

"Don't talk about it, Mrs. Jones."

"Only that I know the world so well that what I say might, perhaps, be of use. Of course I
know that he has gone out of town."

"Yes, he has gone."

"I was so glad that you didn't go with him. People will talk, you know, and it did look as
though he were a sort of Bluebeard. Bluebeards, my dear, must be put down. There may be most
well-intentioned Bluebeards, who have no chambers of horrors, no secrets,"--Mary thought of
the letter from Mrs. Houghton, of which nobody knew but herself,--"who never cut off anybody's
heads, but still interfere dreadfully with the comfort of a household. Lord George is very
nearly all that a man ought to be."

"He is the best man in the world," said Mary.

"I am sure you think so. But he shouldn't be jealous, and above all he shouldn't show that
he's jealous. You were bound, I think, to stay behind and show the world that you had nothing
to fear. I suppose the Dean counselled it?"

"Yes;--he did."

"Fathers of married daughters shouldn't often interfere, but there I think he was right. It
is much better for Lord George himself that it should be so. There is nothing so damaging to
a young woman as to have it supposed she has had to be withdrawn from the influence of a young
man."

"It would be wicked of anybody to think so," said Mary, sobbing.

"But they must have thought so if you hadn't remained. You may be sure, my dear, that your
father was quite right. I am sorry that you cannot make one in the dance again, because we
shall have changed Lord Giblet for Lord Augustus Grandison, and I am sure it will be done very
well. But of course I couldn't ask you to stay for it. As your departure was fixed beforehand
you ought not to stay for it. But that is very different from being taken away in a jiffey,
like some young man who is spending more than he ought to spend, and is hurried off suddenly
nobody knows where."

