CHAPTER LV

Although, as we have just seen, matters were beginning to brighten a little in Spain, they
remained as dull and overcast as ever in France. The impossibility of obtaining peace, and
the exhaustion of the realm, threw, the King into the most cruel anguish, and Desmarets into
the saddest embarrassment.  The paper of all kinds with which trade was inundated, and which
had all more or less lost credit, made a chaos for which no remedy could be perceived.  State-bills,
bank-bills, receiver- general's-bills, title-bills, utensil-bills, were the ruin of private
people, who were forced by the King to take them in payment, and who lost half, two-thirds,
and sometimes more, by the transaction.  This depreciation enriched the money people, at the
expense of the public; and the circulation of money ceased, because there was no longer any
money; because the King no longer paid anybody, but drew his revenues still; and because all
the specie out of his control was locked up in the coffers of the possessors.

The capitation tax was doubled and trebled, at the will of the Intendants of the Provinces;
merchandise and all kinds of provision were taxed to the amount of four times their value;
new taxes of all kinds and upon all sorts of things were exacted; all this crushed nobles and
roturiers, lords and clergy, and yet did not bring enough to the King, who drew the blood of
all his subjects, squeezed out their very marrow, without distinction, and who enriched an
army of tax-gatherers and officials of all kinds, in whose hands the best part of what was
collected remained.

Desmarets, in whom the King had been forced to put all his confidence in finance matters, conceived
the idea of establishing, in addition to so many taxes, that Royal Tithe upon all the property
of each community and of each private person of the realm, that the Marechal de Vauban, on
the one hand, and Boisguilbert on the other, had formerly proposed; but, as I have already
described, as a simple and stile tax which would suffice for all, which would all enter the
coffers of the King, and by means of which every other impost would be abolished.

We have seen what success this proposition met with; how the fanciers trembled at it; how the
ministers blushed at it, with what anathemas it was rejected, and to what extent these two
excellent and skilful citizens were disgraced.  All this must be recollected here, since Desmarets,
who had not lost sight of this system (not as relief and remedy--unpardonable crimes in the
financial doctrine), now had recourse to it.

He imparted his project to three friends, Councillors of State, who examined it well, and worked
hard to see how to overcome the obstacles which arose in the way of its execution.  In the
first place, it was necessary, in order to collect this tax, to draw from each person a clear
statement of his wealth, of his debts, and so on.  It was necessary to demand sure proofs on
these points so as not to be deceived.  Here was all the difficulty.  Nothing was thought of
the desolation this extra impost must cause to a prodigious number of men, or of their despair
upon finding themselves obliged to disclose their family secrets; to hate a lamp thrown, as
it were, upon their most delicate parts; all these things, I say, went for nothing.  Less than
a month sufficed these humane commissioners to render an account of this gentle project to
the Cyclops who had charged them with it.  Desmarets thereupon proposed it to the King, who,
accustomed as he was to the most ruinous imposts, could not avoid being terrified at this.
For a long while he had heard nothing talked of but the most extreme misery; this increase
saddened him in a manner so evident, that his valets perceived it several days running, and
were so disturbed at it, that Marechal (who related all this curious anecdote to me) made bold
to speak to the King upon this sadness, fearing for his health.  The King avowed to him that
he felt infinite trouble, and threw himself vaguely upon the state of affairs.  Eight or ten
days. after (during which he continued to feel the same melancholy), the King regained his
usual calmness, and called Marechal to explain the cause of his trouble.

The King related to Marechal that the extremity of his affairs had forced him to put on furious
imposts; that setting aside compassion, scruples had much tormented him for taking thus the
wealth of his subjects; that at last he had unbosomed himself to the Pere Tellier, who had
asked for a few days to think upon the matter, and that he had returned after having had a
consultation with some of the most skilful doctors of the Sorbonne, who had decided that all
the wealth of his subjects was his, and that when he took it he only took what belonged to
him!  The King added, that this decision had taken away all his scruples, and had restored
to him the calm and tranquillity he had lost.  Marechal was so astonished, so bewildered to
hear, this recital, that he could not offer one word. Happily for him, the King quitted him
almost immediately, and Marechal remained some time in the same place, scarcely knowing where
he was.

After the King had been thus satisfied by his confessor, no time was lost in establishing the
tax.  On Tuesday, the 30th of September, Desmarets entered the Finance Council with the necessary
edict in his bag.

For some days everybody had known of this bombshell in the air, and had trembled with that
remnant of hope which is founded only upon desire; all the Court as well as all Paris waited
in a dejected sadness to see what would happen.  People whispered to each other, and even when
the project was rendered public, no one dared to talk of it aloud.

On the day above-named, the King brought forward this measure in the Council, by saying, that
the impossibility of obtaining peace, and the extreme difficulty of sustaining the war, had
caused Desmarets to look about in order to discover some means, which should appear good, of
raising money; that he had pitched upon this tax; that he (the King), although sorry to adopt
such a resource, approved it, and had no doubt the Council would do so likewise, when it was
explained to them. Desmarets, in a pathetic discourse, then dwelt upon the reasons which had
induced him to propose this tax, and afterwards read the edict through from beginning to end
without interruption.

No one spoke, moreover, when it was over, until the King asked D'Aguesseau his opinion.  D'Aguesseau
replied, that it would be necessary for him to take home the edict and read it through very
carefully before expressing an opinion.  The King said that D'Aguesseau was right--it would
take a long time to examine the edict--but after all, examination was unnecessary, and would
only be loss of time.  All remained silent again, except the Duc de Beauvilliers, who, seduced
by the nephew of Colbert, whom he thought an oracle in finance, said a few words in favour
of the project.

Thus was settled this bloody business, and immediately after signed, sealed, and registered,
among stifled sobs, and published amidst the most gentle but most piteous complaints.  The
product of this tax was nothing like so much as had been imagined in this bureau of Cannibals;
and the King did not pay a single farthing more to any one than he had previously done.  Thus
all the fine relief expected by this tax ended in smoke.

The Marechal de Vauban had died of grief at the ill-success of his task and his zeal, as I
have related in its place.  Poor Boisguilbert, in the exile his zeal had brought him, was terribly
afflicted, to find he had innocently given advice which he intended for the relief of the State,
but which had been made use of in this frightful manner.  Every man, without exception, saw
himself a prey to the tax-gatherers: reduced to calculate and discuss with them his own patrimony,
to receive their signature and their protection under the most terrible pains; to show in public
all the secrets of his family; to bring into the broad open daylight domestic turpitudes enveloped
until then in the folds of precautions the wisest and the most multiplied.  Many had to convince
the tax agents, but vainly, that although proprietors, they did not enjoy the tenth part of
them property.  All Languedoc offered to give up its entire wealth, if allowed to enjoy, free
from every impost, the tenth part of it.  The proposition not only was not listened to, but
was reputed an insult and severely blamed.

Monseigneur le Duc de Bourgogne spoke openly against this tax; and against the finance people,
who lived upon the very marrow of the people; spoke with a just and holy anger that recalled
the memory of Saint-Louis, of Louis XII., Father of the People, and of Louis the Just.  Monseigneur,
too, moved by this indignation, so unusual, of his son, sided with him, and showed anger at
so many exactions as injurious as barbarous, and at so many insignificant men so monstrously
enriched with the nation's blood.  Both father and son infinitely surprised those who heard
them, and made themselves looked upon, in some sort as resources from which something might
hereafter be hoped for.  But the edict was issued, and though there might be some hope in the
future, there was none in the present.  And no one knew who was to be the real successor of
Louis XIV., and how under the next government we were to be still more overwhelmed than under
this one.

One result of this tax was, that it enabled the King to augment all his infantry with five
men per company.

A tax was also levied upon the usurers, who had much gained by trafficking in the paper of
the King, that is to say, had taken advantage of the need of those to whom the King gave this
paper in payment.  These usurers are called 'agioteurs'.  Their mode was, ordinarily, to give,
for example, according as the holder of paper was more or less pressed, three or four hundred
francs (the greater part often in provisions), for a bill of a thousand francs!  This game
was called 'agio'. Not many years ago, there were only two or three houses here, and the land on
which the station and the town are built formed part of a good Cheshire
farm.

The worthy farmer plowed his fields and reaped his harvest, his dame made good Cheshire cheese;
and both lived merrily on, quite unconscious of the change that their farm was about to undergo.
The eyes of engineers were on it: it was placed, as an Irishman would say, "very convanient" for
railway purposes and after a few years had rolled away, it became
the great workshop of the Grand Junction Line, and the point where
the main line to Birmingham received its tributaries from the north
and west.

Several thousands of people were brought here; the company laid out streets and built houses;
shops were opened; churches and schools erected; a market-place provided; a Mechanics' Institution
established; many hotels built, one of which was destined to lodge royalty for a night; and a
town was erected with a rapidity unexampled even in America.

The general appearance of Crewe is very pleasing. The streets are wide, and well paved; the
houses are very neat and commodious, usually of two stories, built
of bricks, but the brick concealed by rough-cast plaster, with porches,
lattice-windows, and a little piece of garden-ground before the door.

The greater part of these houses belong to the company, and are let
to the men at rents from 2s.

9d. per week upward.

The accommodation is good, and it would be difficult to find such houses at such low rents even
in the suburbs of a large town.  His eldest son was fourteen
years of age, handsome, well made, of much promise, and who succeeded marvellously at the Court,
when his father presented him there to the King to thank his Majesty for the reversion of the
government of Flow and of Lille.  He returned afterwards to the College of the Jesuits, where
he was being educated.  I know not what youthful folly he was guilty of with the two sons of
D'Argenson; but the Jesuits, wishing to show that they made no distinction of persons, whipped
the little lad, because, to say the truth, they had nothing to fear from the Marechal de Boufflers;
but they took good care to left the others off, although equally guilty, because they had to
reckon with D'Argenson, lieutenant of the police, of much credit in book matters, Jansenism,
and all sorts of things and affairs in which they were interested.

Little Boufflers, who was full of courage, and who had done no more than the two Argensons,
and with them, was seized with such despair, that he fell ill that same day.  He was carried
to the Marechal's house, but it was impossible to save him.  The heart was seized, the blood
diseased, the purples appeared; in four days all was over.  The state of the father and mother
may be imagined!  The King, who was much touched by it, did not let them ask or wait for him.
He sent one of his gentlemen to testify to them the share he had in their loss, and announced
that he would give to their remaining son 'what he had already given to the other.  As for
the Jesuits, the universal cry against them was prodigious; but that was all.  This would be
the place, now that I am speaking of the Jesuits, to speak of another affair in which they
were concerned.  But I pass over, for the present, the dissensions that broke out at about
this time, and that ultimately led to the famous Papal Bull Unigenitus, so fatal to the Church
and to the State, so shameful far Rome, and so injurious to religion; and I proceed to speak
of the great event of this year which led to others so memorable and so unexpected.

CHAPTER LVI

But in Order to understand the part I played in the event I have alluded to and the interest
I took in it, it is necessary for me to relate some personal matters that occurred in the previous
year. Du Mont was one of the confidants of Monseigneur; but also had never forgotten what his
father owed to mine.  Some days after the commencement of the second voyage to Marly, subsequently
to the marriage of the Duchesse de Berry, as I was coming back from the King's mass, the said
Du Mont, in the crush at the door of the little salon of the chapel, took an opportunity when
he was not perceived, to pull me by my coat, and when I turned round put a finger to his lips,
and pointed towards the gardens which are at the bottom of the river, that is to say, of that
superb cascade which the Cardinal Fleury has destroyed, and which faced the rear of the chateau.
At the same time du Mont whispered in my car: "To the arbours!" That part of the garden was
surrounded with arbours palisaded so as to conceal what was inside.  It was the least frequented
place at Marly, leading to nothing; and in the afternoon even, and the evening, few people
within them.

Uneasy to know what Du Mont wished to communicate with so much mystery, I gently went towards
the arbours where, without being seen, I looked through one of the openings until I saw him
appear.  He slipped in by the corner of the chapel, and I went towards him.  As he joined me
he begged me to return towards the river, so as to be still more out of the way; and then we
set ourselves against the thickest palisades, as far as possible from all openings, so as to
be still more concealed.  All this surprised and frightened me: I was still more so when I
learned what was the matter.

Du Mont then told me, on condition that I promised not to show that I knew it, and not to make
use of my knowledge in any way without his consent, that two days after the marriage of the
Duc de Berry, having entered towards the end of the morning the cabinet of Monseigneur, he
found him alone, looking very serious.  He followed Monseigneur, through the gardens alone,
until he entered by the window the apartments of the Princesse de Conti, who was also alone.
As he entered Monseigneur said with an air not natural to him, and very inflamed--as if by
way of interrogation--that she "sat very quietly there."  This frightened her so, that she
asked if there was any news from Flanders, and what had happened.  Monseigneur answered, in
a tone of great annoyance, that there was no news except that the Duc de Saint-Simon had said,
that now that the marriage of the Duc de Berry was brought about, it would be proper to drive
away Madame la Duchesse and the Princesse de Conti, after which it would be easy to govern
"the great imbecile," meaning himself.  This was why he thought she ought not to be so much
at her ease.  Then, suddenly, as if lashing his sides to get into a greater rage, he spoke
in a way such a speech would have deserved, added menaces, said that he would have the Duc
de Bourgogne to fear me, to put me aside, and separate himself entirely from me.  This sort
of soliloquy lasted a long time, and I was not told what the Princesse de Conti said to it;
but from the silence of Du Mont, her annoyance at the marriage, I had brought about, and other
reasons, it seems to me unlikely that she tried to soften Monseigneur.

Du Mont begged me not, for a long time at least, to show that I knew what had taken place,
and to behave with the utmost prudence.  Then he fled away by the path he had come by, fearing
to be seen.  I remained walking up and down in the arbour all the time, reflecting on the wickedness
of my enemies, and the gross credulity of Monseigneur.  Then I ran away, and escaped to Madame
de Saint-Simon, who, as astonished and frightened as I, said not a word of the communication
I had received.

I never knew who had served me this ill-turn with Monseigneur, but I always suspected Mademoiselle
de Lillebonne.  After a long time, having obtained with difficulty the consent of the timid
Du Mont, I made Madame de Saint-Simon speak to the Duchesse de Bourgogne, who undertook to
arrange the affair as well as it could be arranged.  The Duchesse spoke indeed to Monseigneur,
and showed him how ridiculously he had been deceived, when he was persuaded that I could ever
have entertained the ideas attributed to me.  Monseigneur admitted that he had been carried
away by anger; and that there was no likelihood that I should have thought of anything so wicked
and incredible.

About this time the household of the Duc and Duchesse de Berry was constituted.  Racilly obtained
the splendid appointment of first surgeon, and was worthy of it; but the Duchesse de Berry
wept bitterly, because she did not consider him of high family enough.  She was not so delicate
about La Haye, whose appointment she rapidly secured.  The fellow looked in the glass more
complaisantly than ever.  He was well made, but stiff, and with a face not at all handsome,
and looking as if it had been skinned.  He was happy in more ways than one, and was far more
attached to his new mistress than to his master.  The King was very angry when he learned that
the Duc de Berry had supplied himself with such an assistant.

Meantime, I continued on very uneasy terms with Monseigneur, since I had learned his strange
credulity with respect to me.  I began to feel my position very irksome, not to say painful,
on this account.  Meudon I would not go to--for me it was a place infested with demons--yet
by stopping away I ran great risks of losing the favour and consideration I enjoyed at Court.
Monseigneur was a man so easily imposed upon, as I had already experienced, and his intimate
friends were so unscrupulous that there was no saying what might be invented on the one side
and swallowed on the other, to my discredit.  Those friends, too, were, I knew, enraged against
me for divers weighty reasons, and would stop at nothing, I was satisfied, to procure my downfall.
For want of better support I sustained myself with courage.  I said to myself, "We never experience
all the evil or all the good that we have apparently the most reason to expect."  I hoped,
therefore, against hope, terribly troubled it must be confessed on the score of Meudon.  At
Easter, this year, I went away to La Ferme, far from the Court and the world, to solace myself
as I could; but this thorn in my side was cruelly sharp!  At the moment the most unlooked-for
it pleased God to deliver me from it. 

Several thousand years before Christ the people of this land began to till the soil, to control the
floods in the rivers by means of irrigating canals, to make bricks out of the abundant clay
and with them to build houses and cities. They also invented a system of writing upon clay tablets.
These were baked in the sun after the letters were inscribed. Commercial records and written
laws and histories were thus made possible and in time a varied literature
was created.

Whole libraries of these baked clay tablets have been unearthed and deciphered by modern investigators.

=Evidences
of ancient culture.=--By B.C. 4000 there flourished on the plains
of Babylonia a splendid civilization in many ways similar to ours
to-day.  Monseigneur, and Madame
de Bourgogne, who was with him, knelt down to adore the Host, and then Monseigneur inquired
what was the malady of the patient.  "The small-pox," he was told.  That disease was very prevalent
just then.  Monseigneur had had it, but very lightly, and when young.  He feared it very much,
and was struck with the answer he now received.  In the evening he said to Boudin, his chief
doctor, "I should not be surprised if I were to have the small-pox."  The, day, however, passed
over as usual.

On the morrow, Thursday, the 9th, Monseigneur rose, and meant to go out wolf-hunting; but as
he was dressing, such a fit of weakness seized him, that he fell into his chair.  Boudin made
him get into bed again; but all the day his pulse was in an alarming state.  The King, only
half informed by Fagon of what had taken place, believed there was nothing the matter, and
went out walking at Marly after dinner, receiving news from time to time.  Monseigneur le Duc
de Bourgogne and Madame de Bourgogne dined at Meudon, and they would not quit Monseigneur for
one moment.  The Princess added to the strict duties of a daughter-in-law all that her gracefulness
could suggest, and gave everything to Monseigneur with her own hand. How good they smell! And here
are some bunches of raisins and figs, just as sweet and luscious as those which we buy in the fruit
stores in America. The figs in our stores may have come from that
very country of which we are studying.  The Duc de Bourgogne, simple and holy as he was,
and full of the idea of his duty, exaggerated his attention; and although there was a strong
suspicion of the small-pox, neither quitted Monseigneur, except for the King's supper.

The next day, Friday, the 10th, in reply to his express demands, the King was informed of the
extremely dangerous state of Monseigneur.  He had said on the previous evening that he would
go on the following morning to Meudon, and remain there during all the illness of Monseigneur
whatever its nature might be.  He was now as good as his word.  Immediately after mass he set
out for Meudon.  Before doing so, he forbade his children, and all who had not had the small-pox,
to go there, which was suggested by a motive of kindness.  With Madame de Maintenon and a small
suite, he had just taken up his abode in Meudon, when Madame de Saint-Simon sent me the letter
of which I have just made mention.

I will continue to speak of myself with the same truthfulness I speak of others, and with as
much exactness as possible.  According to the terms on which I was with Monseigneur and his
intimates, may be imagined the impression made upon me by this news.  I felt that one way or
other, well or ill, the malady of Monseigneur would soon terminate.  I was quite at my ease
at La Ferme.  I resolved therefore to wait there until I received fresh particulars.  I despatched
a courier to Madame de Saint-Simon, requesting her to send me another the next day, and I passed
the rest of this day, in an ebb and flow of feelings; the man and the Christian struggling
against the man and the courtier, and in the midst of a crowd of vague fancies catching glimpses
of the future, painted in the most agreeable colours.

The courier I expected so impatiently arrived the next day, Sunday, after dinner.  The small-pox
had declared itself, I learnt, and was going on as well as could be wished.  I believed Monseigneur
saved, and wished to remain at my own house; nevertheless I took advice, as I have done all
my life, and with great regret set out the next morning.  At La queue, about six leagues from
Versailles, I met a financier of the name of La Fontaine, whom I knew well.  He was coming
from Paris and Versailles, and came up to me as I changed horses.  Monseigneur, he said, was
going on admirably; and he added details which convinced me he was out of all danger.  I arrived
at Versailles, full of this opinion, which was confirmed by Madame de Saint-Simon and everybody
I met, so that nobody any longer feared, except on account of the treacherous nature of this
disease in a very fat man of fifty.

The King held his Council, and worked in the evening with his ministers as usual.  He saw Monseigneur
morning and evening, oftentimes in the afternoon, and always remained long by the bedside.
On the Monday I arrived he had dined early, and had driven to Marly, where the Duchesse de
Bourgogne joined him.  He saw in passing on the outskirts of the garden of Versailles his grandchildren,
who had come out to meet him, but he would not let them come near, and said, "good day" from
a distance. The Duchesse de Bourgogne had had the small-pox, but no trace was left.

The King only liked his own houses, and could not bear to be anywhere else.  This was why his
visits to Meudon were few and short, and only made from complaisance.  Madame de Maintenon
was still more out of her element there. He supported his motion at great length, entering into
a detailed history of the whole matter, and accusing the government of having, through its foreign
minister, insisted on exorbitant demands, oppressed the weak, and endangered the peace of Europe.
 Thus she had Saint-Cyr for Versailles and for Marly; and
at Marly also a particular retiring place; at Fontainebleau she had her town house. Seeing
therefore that Monseigneur was getting on well, and that a long sojourn it Meudon would be
necessary, the upholsterers of the King were ordered to furnish a house in the park which once
belonged to the Chancellor le Tellier, but which Monseigneur had bought.

When I arrived at Versailles, I wrote to M. de Beauvilliers at Meudon praying him to apprise
the King that I had returned on account of the illness of Monseigneur, and that I would have
gone to see him, but that, never having had the small-pox, I was included in the prohibition.
M. de Beauvilliers did as I asked, and sent word back to me that my return had been very well
timed, and that the King still forbade me as well as Madame de Saint-Simon to go to Meudon.
This fresh prohibition did not distress me in the least.  I was informed of all that was passing
there; and that satisfied me.

