As the Captivity happened near 600 Years before Christ, we may reasonably believe that in the
Course of about 2000 Years, the Americans descended from Tartars might become as numerous as
they are said to have been, when the Europeans landed on their Coast. This will fully Account
for Jewish Customs and Manners in some parts of America.

I now proceed to consider the Objections raised by two very respectable Authors to Prince Madog's
Voyages to America; Lord Lyttelton, and Dr. William Robertson.

I have already observed, that the Account we have of this Event in Caradoc's History, was not
written by him, but by Humphry Llwyd and Dr. Powel; but I conceive that Lord Lyttelton was
not right in calling there additions to Caradoc's work "Interpolations."

Besides the Unpoliteness, indeed, the Impropriety of the Word, this is to charge the above
Writers with wilful and direct Forgeries. Llwyd and Powel were Gentlemen of fair and unblemished
Characters, and good Scholars. Mr. Llwyd's Writings shew him to have been a Man of Learning
and Judgment; and Dr. Powel was the same; and was well acquainted with all the Transactions
in his Native Principality, and published several things on that Subject, besides this Work;
such as Ponticus Virunnius, and Giraldus's History.

Dr. Powel says that he had compared Llwyd's Translation with the British Book, of which he
had at first two Copies, (meaning, as I understand him, of Guttun Owen's Book) and that he
had received a third and a larger Copy of it from Robert Glover, Somerset Herald. This Circumstance
shews that he was a diligent and careful Enquirer; and that Llwyd's Translations and Additions
were just, true, and correct. A Gentleman in the Herald's Office must have known what degree
of Credit was to be given to a Writing on a Subject with which a Person in his Office must
have been conversant; otherwise, it is not probable that he would have been at the trouble
of correcting it, nor would he have sent it to a Friend as a Voucher of a Fact. Where he found
his Copy to differ from others of Authority and Consistency, he corrected his Copy by them;
for a Person in his Situation must have had free access to all the Repositories of Antiquity
in his own Office, and to others.[pp] Dr. Powel also corrected his Copy; whence it appears
evident that Guttun Owen's Compilations were extant in Dr. Powel's Days.

[Footnote pp: Were the Herald's Office carefully searched, there possibly might be found some
papers on this Subject.]

His Lordship supposes that the Doctor dressed up some Tradition concerning Madog which he found
in Guttun Owen and others, in order to convey an Idea that his Country-man had the Honour of
first discovering America.--It hath already been observed (page 8th) that this part of History
from 1157, to 1270, was not written by Dr. Powel, but by Humphry Llwyd. Had these additions
been Inventions, Humphry Llwyd and Dr. Powel must have been very bad and weak Men; for as Guttun
Owen's Works were extant in their Time, the Forgeries must have been immediately detected.
I really believe that his Lordship is the first Writer that has charged Dr. Powel with wilful
and designed misrepresentations.

Those writings of Guttun Owen's, which his Lordship allows were extant in the Days of Dr. Powel,
were certainly known before Columbus's first Voyage; for the Doctor expressly says that he
found the particulars concerning Madog's emigration noted by Guttun Owen, who wrote, in 1480:
consequently this Bard's Writings were known to Dr. Powel.

Lord Lyttelton grants that Prince Madog was a bolder Navigator than any of his Countrymen,
in the age he lived, and that he was "famous for some Voyage; but as the Course was not mark'd,
it is of no Importance to the matter in question."

With Submission to his Lordship, I think that the Course is clearly marked, and so thought
Hornius, as appears from what he says in the Extract above cited: for it is said that Madog
sailed west-ward, and left the Coast of Ireland to the North, and that he fell in with Land
in that Direction. And it is certain that no Land is found in that Direction, but America.

His Lordship also says "that if Madog did really discover any part of America, or any Islands
lying to the South-west of Ireland, in the Atlantic Ocean, without the help of the Compass,
at a time when Navigation was ill understood, and with Mariners less expert than any other
in Europe, he performed an atchievement incomparably more extraordinary than that of Columbus." Do
    not say that they go dark. Houses, trees, paths, wind, Chairs,
    tables, beds and lockers, all things are looking.

    
    All things have guessed. Not only foreheads spirit give
    you, All things draw spirits.

    Small gray flies train, Spinnwebfaden softly in the
    air, each blade of grass is thinking enough.
    

And like all things.

    As with the birds chanting all the world
    loves the rings. One way to other forces, Each of his
    desire to start. Always want to feel like hanging
    himself.
    
    Wooden rafts
    
    There are wooden rafts came down the river, Are
    floated on the reflections of the bank. There are
    dead forests, glide down the river, Timber ship,
    the ride quickly in the salt sea, Dead bodies,
    which once hung at green clothes About the folds of the sun caressing
gone.

In their breasts sang the bird flocks, And her breasts were filled
with singing sigh.

Silently they continue to swim, the wooden bodies, Soon they will reach the bitter sea Where
they hunt like ghosts through infinity And wear the desire around the world.

Trapped animals

Esther, the daughter of the English botanist, Horseshoe, was in India,
in Calcutta, was born and should now return to their sixteenth year
of life forever with her father in England.

Esther was grown in India, like a coral on the seabed. She tried in every possible Way to find
a reason to remain in India to be allowed.

She fell, as young, stubborn girl easily do that, to the resolute and in her eyes Easy: they
wanted to be kidnapped by a young Indian.

At home were already cleared all the rooms, all boxes nailed down, all buckled case, and Esther
lived with her father during the last few nights at the Grand Hotel in Calcutta.

It was Sunday, and Monday, father and daughter wanted the train to Bombay, to where the steamers
of the P. - to achieve and O. line and embark for Southampton.

It is Sunday afternoon. The spring rain has stopped falling, the grass land of the giant Maidanplatzes
front of the hotel has swallowed all the puddles and water quickly, the sun sparkles like brand
new in the sky, and the ladies at the hotel appear with the first spring straw hats the London
season at the head.

The botanist Horseshoe wrote on a typewriter in the reading room of the hotel's past Botanical
Report for the Calcutta-Times, and Esther said over his shoulder
to her father, that they would make one cycle around the Maidan.

She drove a few minutes later on the nickel, flashing around the wheel several kilometers large
open grass field, ducked his head and drilled in the air like a heated
Hummel.

In a great avenue they turned sharply and energetically around the corner and flew out under the
trees, the zoological garden. There just the Sunday afternoon concert was over, high carriages
Esthe were opposed in long rows. The girls avoided looking up, so
as not Known to have to salute. She let her hair out like a madman
in the wind blow, and drove like a Spooky on the Pram chain over.

The
regimental band dressed in white just left with their gleaming brass
instruments, the Garden, as Esther in the great gates of Rade jumped.
The clerk of the zoological garden Esthe knew they had a day here
in the huge park, where the red roofs of the animal houses illuminated
by the bluish green of the Royal Palm and the Kasuarinenbäume like
red tents.

The Indian porter smiled daily for the hasty little miss,
extending from one of the young Gardener's boy through the rows of
trees and past the cages often accompany long afternoons was.

The return of our Prince to North Wales, and back again to his Colony, is the most difficult
to be accounted for, in the whole Story: However, I apprehend, that this is not altogether
impossible.

Let it be observed that the space of Time in which there Voyages of Madag's were performed
is no where mentioned. They might have taken up twenty Years or more. Madog, on his return
to Wales, might have sailed Northward by the American Coast, till he came to a situation where
the light of the Sun at Noon was the same, at that Season, as it was in his Native Country,
and then sailing Eastward (the Polar Star, long before observed would prevent his sailing on
a wrong point) he might safely return to Britain. The experience he derived from his first
Voyage would enable him to join his Companions whom he had left behind.

That there are strong Currents in the Atlantic Ocean, is well known. On his return to North
Wales, Madog might fall into that Current, which it is said, runs from the West Indian Islands
Northward to Cape Sable in Nova Scotia, where interrupted by the Land, it runs Eastward towards
Britain.

There is a Tradition that a Captain of a Ship dined at Boston, in New England, on a Sunday,
and on the following Sunday, dined at his own House, in Penzance, Cornwall. This is by no means
impossible; for with favourable Winds and strong Currents, a Ship may run above 14 miles in
an Hour.

The late celebrated Dr. Benjamin Franklin of Philadelphia, in a letter to a Friend well known
in the literary World, which I heard read, said that he was fully convinced that there was
such a Current from West to East, and that he did not think that the Captain's remarkable Expedition
impossible, nor even, altogether, improbable.

It seems to me not a little strange that Lord Lyttelton should say, "that no certain Monument,
Vestige or Memorial of Madog's Voyage was ever found." It is hardly possible that his Lordship
would say it, if he saw Hornius, and some other authorities, above produced, especially Peter
Martyr for we have above seen that many such Memorials were, and are now to be found in America.

His Lordship, indeed, seems to have entertained a most contemptible opinion of the Ancient
and the Modern Britons, as appears in his Letter from Snowdon.

These Remarks, I presume, if they do not remove, yet very considerably weaken, Lord Lyttelton's
Objections.[ss]

[Footnote ss: Lord Lyttelton's, History of Henry the 2d. Book V. Note 339. 8th Edit. 1773.]

I shall now confider Dr. Robertson's Observations on this Subject.[tt]

[Footnote tt: History of America. Vol. I. p. 373. Edit. 1788.]

What he hath, in general, advanced, is much the same with what had been said by Lord Lyttelton
and others; and therefore, what I have already said, will serve as a general Answer: but I
must examine some particulars.

He first says, "that the Pretensions of the Welsh to the Discovery of America, seem not to
rest on a foundation much more solid, (than the Discovery of it by Behaim) because that Powel,
on whose Testimony the authenticity of the Story rests, published his History above four Centuries
from the Date of the Event which he relates." But since the woman
at Christmas time could not stray from the store, she expected the man until New Year's Eve, New Year's
Eve celebration.

In the first period of separation was the Südfrüchtenhändler in of his new business as Claim
made that he neither his wife nor the young girl who remains in the
shop in the province had the night watch, was missing.

But when the new business was underway and monotonous unraveled, his memories returned double back violently,
and the smells of the fruits in the store, their sweetness through the air aroused widespread, again,
especially when he closed the shop in the evening, his account books checked and had collapsed
and was allowed to leave the tranquility and the dreams the image
of the girl and the scent of her body, as he had met him previously
at the hour the mouse.

He noted that he remembered that even single verses ballads and romances, which they presented always
in the night silence in the circle of fruit baskets, had on him and the remote islands and
distant lands, among strange trees, fiery and strange people had added to their language full of words
striking passion shone vividly the colors of tropical fruit, the bare iron from the sober columns
of the store, from the limestone walls and contrasted from a strict
cash desk as flares, which are in the sober daylight burns.

If the man then out of the store in his room in one of the upper storeys of the House came when
he had to live now without a wife, were the scents of the southern countries clung to his coat, with his
dreams.

And he embraced in his sleep, not his wife; but the young girl he put on his heart while he her
breasts like two fresh Kalvillenäpfel entgegendufteten.

And especially at the hour of the mouse, he often lay awake on the pillow, with arms folded under
his head, and stood in front of his shop in the province, where the gas lamps burned and that he
longed for, with the legs drawn up on the swivel chair counter sat
and talked in between ballads and jumping up and crept to a corner
where all Mousetraps were, but they were so familiar to the mice that
had no more desire to catch the to leave.

I should be very sorry to suspect that Dr. Robertson took notice of Sir Meredyth ab Rhys, only
because he could not well avoid it. However, as if he wanted to destroy his Authority, he speaks
of him with great Indifference, with a formal, indeed.

He adds, "But if we admit Powel's Story; (Humphry Llwyd's) it does not follow that the unknown
Country which Madog discovered was any part of America: it is much more probable that it was
Madeira, or some of the Western Isles." With submission, this is altogether improbable. It
is very little farther from North Wales to some parts of America, than to the Madeiras; and,
upon the whole, it is more secure to sail in an open Sea, than among Shelves and Shoals on
an unknown Coast.

But not to insist upon this Circumstance; if the Country Madog discovered was Madeira, or any
of the Western Islands, he must have found them uninhabited, and entirely uncultivated, covered
with Wood, and without any Traces of Human Beings; for as the Doctor himself says, this was
the state of the Madeiras when discovered by the Portuguese in 1519. The other Western Isles
were not, even, settled, for some Centuries after Madog's Voyages.[uu]

[Footnote uu: Dr. Robertson. ubi supra. Vol. I. p. 64. If the Country on which Madog landed
was uninhabited, how could he have found the Customs and Manners of the People different from
those of Europe? Where there were no Inhabitants, there could be no Customs.]

What the Doctor hath said, after Lord Lyttelton, concerning the Literature and Naval skill
of the ancient Britons, hath been already animadverted upon. To add more on those particulars,
is unnecessary.

If we could find no Word, among the Americans, similar to the ancient British, in sound and
sense, but Pengwyn, I should no more depend upon that circumstance than Mr. Pennant doth; but
that is not the case: for many such words were found among the Natives of the New World, and
in the West Indian Islands, which are neither obscure nor fanciful; for they had not only a
strong resemblance in found, but convey the same Idea precisely, in both Languages.

As to traces of Christianity, Hornius hath enumerated many that were found there by the Spaniards;
such as the Cross, Baptism, the Lord's Supper, 35 days Fast, and the Trinity.[vv]

[Footnote vv: Hornius. ubi supra. p. 128, 178, Peter Martyr. Decade 3d. ch. 5. p. 58. C. and
de Insulis nuper inventis. p. 71. C.]

It is true, that these Customs may have been introduced by other Nations; by the Chinese, Japanese,
&c. as Hornius hath observed: but this does not concern my subject, which is only to examine
which of the European Nations first visited America. As no Nation in Europe, but the ancient
Britons, hath ever pretended, or does pretend to have discovered America before, the Spaniards
in 1492, I am inclined to believe that some of these Christian ordinances and superstitions
were introduced by the Britons.

The space of time between the landing of Prince Madog, and Columbus, above 300 Years, was sufficiently
long to disseminate such Notions and practices through a very great part of America.

In short, the account given by Llwyd and Powel hath all the marks of strict Truth. If it be
an Invention without any Foundation, it is a very singular one, the like to which is hardly
to be met with. All imaginary Heroes and Conquerors, are adorned with every Virtue; whereas
Madog is represented as possessed of no Virtue, but prudence and Courage.

Having thus made some Animadversions on Lord Lyttelton's, and Dr. Robertson's Objections to
Prince Madog's Adventures, and endeavoured to shew, that they do not absolutely overthrow the
Truth of the Fact, I only observe farther here, that these eminent Writers have entirely omitted
to take Notice of Mr. Jones's Narrative, and Mr. Lloyd's Letter, which they had, or ought to
have seen, before they wrote upon the Subject. The rest of the lit side rooms became the rest of the world ocean, the dim light in the
rooms to the peacefulness of sky light over the primeval waters.

So I knew when I got up mechanically and master of the house with some guests, the room left, now
no longer know what reality was and what unreality.

There was a wide subdued celebration for me, which I just could not separate half and half felt
disconnected, as they do not treat mine.

Because it was the celebration the pain and joy balancing hour of death, from the rooms of this house
is not was yielded, which had the everyday spaces can give a higher transfiguration, as it otherwise
here loud parties had been able.

I had been in the same house several years ago to a large evening party, but the exquisitely
decorated Women and men were facing humanities at dance steps, wit and gaiety, with wine and
music do not create similar size of the celebration, can not a similar increase in the House,
as is now done one man, a young man, the only son, who by had made his death the house step to
the edge of infinity. Like this, it was only the artist managed to fortzuheben the house, he
who created that painting that is not just above the wing in the next room to go, but had the strength
at home and spectator rapture of the Worlds End, to the place where
the kingdom of the fleeing water, deserted kingdom the oceans begins
to man be only a temporary guest, but can not take foot where he set
them depth and breadth, when he cross the line from reality to nothing
would.

I was still undecided, pondering whether I the guests who had gone
to follow, should or if I'm still in the Todesfestlichkeit, which
was in these rooms and attracted me to stay, was allowed.

The deceased was a young musician. Over on the wing were mother and son often Spent hours, when
she sang, what thought the young man, when he played for her, what
the Voice feelings of his youth, his youth and earnestness of his
youth, loneliness auftönen had to leave.

At that time, both heart that the mother and the son as the two riders
on the sea been to their horses in the same clock reduced and the
melody before the immensity of the Sky and sea, to the future and
for the past dragged.

Now, the unit was broken. The delicate and graceful, deeply taken mother was still stunned before
the incomprehensible pain. The melody of the unit was broken. Life was no sound more than
that of sobbing.

Still sobbing at night in dreams, sobbing in morning Wake up, sobbing on the day when stepping
through the silent rooms of the house and According to the still more informal space of my
own heart.

In the last days of summer, the young man was still life and love of life was. Then he was
ill. His lung fever. The language, his voice, died first. Then slipped from the View, his eyes
extinguished, and the warm body that embraced the estranged mother to even the mother's heart
and disappeared into the cold of death.

Now months have passed. Never again, the mother open the door in the music room can. She had buried
her son still need to bury the dead again and again. She had not yet had the power, the son
rise transfigured before him leave. But all farewells should be replaced
by a second coming.

On separation, the Death brings, follows the return, the hour of resurrection. Life can not
be to infinity buried, not even the dead life. Even in death is a shock wave. The Country has
its mountains and hills, the sea's waves and waves, the sky and its clouds its smoothness.
And the past life has its going and returning.

That evening I had unconsciously become clear: the dead man was with his mother and his Father
returned transfigured. He was resurrected in the rooms of the house.

The young Man standing next to us and wanted to give us an expression
of his psychic. His Death wave, room-less than the spatial waves that
we feel alive, wanted to be ahead of us embody.

This solemn awe touched
me more than the bereaved wife of the house said to me and pointed
to the guest, who was beside me remained in the room:

"You're still
not?
One Author says that Cortez, and his Army slew four millions of Mexicans and two Emperors,
Montezuma, and Guatimozin, the latter in the most cruel manner.

But if two millions, or even one, were destroyed, it was a carnage that will reflect the highest
disgrace upon the infernal Perpetrators for ever.

Private Persons are often chargeable with fraudulent Practices, in their dealings with the
unsuspicious Natives of America. There is no doubt but that the English, as well as other Nations,
are often guilt. But public Bodies, as well as Individuals, are chargeable with unjust and
dishonest proceedings, not only with the Indians, but with one another.

The Bay of Honduras, and the parts of the adjoining Continent, in which the English have a
right, "to load and carry away Logwood," by the 17th article of the Peace in 1762, and by the
6th article of the Peace in 1783, we are told are already dangerous to the British Traders.
The Conduct of the Spaniards in this matter, is not only unjustifiable, but shameful among
enlightened Nations, and ought to be represented, in its true Light, to the World. If the Accounts
we have are not exaggerated, their Conduct, if not altered, ought to be resented and chastised.
We should not tamely give up the Sovereignty of the Seas, to any people on Earth, when Justice
and Humanity require us to claim and defend it.

Spanish Pride is become a proverb: however, it requires no inspiration to foretel, that in
the course of not many Years, the Spanish Power in America will be much reduced.[xx] The Independence
of the late British Colonies in that Country, will, I fear, make them ambitious; will lead
them to enlarge their Territories; the consequence, most probably, will be, a great Extent
of Dominion, and another conquest of Mexico. This indeed, in no long time, must naturally take
place, if these Colonies firmly adhere to the principles of their Union. This may be expected
for the following reasons.

[Footnote xx: The Close of the 18th Century seems teeming with great Events. The separation
of the American Colonies from great Britain, hath roused the attention of Europe. Religious
and Civil Liberty are hitherto claimed and successfully maintained in France. In the Austrian
Netherlands, and in other Countries, the principles of Liberty seem to prevail, and though
checked for the present, cannot fail of becoming triumphant in the End. It, possibly, may have
been the design of the Spanish Court, in the present fermented state of Europe, to lead the
people's attention to a foreign War, lest they should persue the measures taken in France.
May the Divine Blessing accompany every attempt made to establish Truth, Viriue, and Liberty,
all over the World!]

The American Forces are at Hand, ready to undertake Expeditions, and to accomplish any purpose,
before the Spaniards, at so many thousands of miles distance, can be apprized of their Designs;
and long before they possibly can send sufficient Reinforcements. Another Reason is, that the
Native Spanish Indians, being in the most abject Slavery to the Prince and the Priests, will
naturally and heartly join the late British Colonies, and assist them in subduing the Spaniards,
in order to emancipate themselves from bondage, and to regain their long lost Liberties.

The British Colonies have set the example, when they thought themselves aggrieved. The Tyranny,
Oppression and Extortion of the Spaniards in the higher Ranks, will dispose the Native Descendants
of the original Inhabitants, and doubtless, many of the Native Spaniards, in the lower Ranks,
to imitate their Example.

The Spanish Military Forces in the Country cannot defeat a general confederacy of the Indians
and others; when strengthened by an Army from the associated American Colonies.

But this prospect, as far as it regards the independent States, I cannot reflect upon with
any pleasure, rather, with Pain; because I am convinced, that it will not be of any advantage,
but rather injurious to them to enlarge their Territories. It will lead their attention to
the Gold Mines of Mexico, and cause them to neglect their own more fruitful Mines at home;
Commerce and Industry, the nearest and most certain Way to Honour, Opulence, and Happiness. 

The first cup of fresh water which he drank for years seemed to him so nutritious and so sweet, that
he thought it would thirst no more. And he said to the women:

"I'll thank you later when I get rich again."

The women bowed down to mono-Ata remains a noble Lord said: "You are
the Most of the land, And their greeting and respect, made him his
heart again felt warm as the sun appeared to him in his open mouth.

Mono-Ata was saturated by the water trunk, away from the farm, deep
in the country admired the rice fields and mulberry trees and came
to the village. Which consisted only out of ten houses. But nearly
thirty women stood at the entrance of the village.

