At the Manharen, a peculiar kind of kopje, we halted, but had to retreat further towards evening.

Beyers' commando moved in the direction of Gatsrand, but had to turn to Zwartruggens, near
Rustenburg, when it reached the farm Modderfontein, where we celebrated Christmas. The enemy
was constantly at our heels, and made things hot for us; we often had to hurry most inconveniently
not to be surrounded or cut off. We got a few days' rest on the farm Vlakhoek. We were camped
near a small stream, and went from there to the different farms in search of the first fruit
of the season.

On New Year's Eve General Beyers' commando moved on the wide hard Krugersdorp road. The bullock
waggon lager had been left behind, as it prevented us from moving as quickly as was sometimes
necessary. The burghers still longed to attack Krugersdorp, and on New Year's Eve, as we moved
fast in the direction of the town, our hearts were cheered by the thought of Jameson's failure,
when five years ago he passed along the same road in his notorious Raid. We all hoped to add
an immortal page to the annals of our history on the following New Year's Day. But we were
sadly disappointed in our expectations. The Jameson Raid was not avenged, and we celebrated
New Year's Day calmly and peacefully at Cyferbult, on Pretorius' farm, with milie-pap (maize
meal porridge) and beef and--green fruit!

Whenever we came to a farm we ate as much green fruit as possible by way of a change in our
diet. On other occasions it would have been very bad for us, but now it seemed to have a very
wholesome effect. As we moved on past Zwartkop over the Krokodil River in the direction of
the railway, we realized that there was no chance of attacking Krugersdorp for the present,
for General Beyers had apparently changed his plans. We were quite sure that it had originally
been his intention, and some of our officers talked of the attack on the town as if it were
an open secret.

Our capable Veld-Kornet, Kruger, had remained behind at Zwartkop to get the burghers of Wyk
III. Krugersdorp from out of their hiding-places, as the Generals wanted to concentrate all
the small bands for some great undertaking. We joined Wyk I. Krugersdorp under Veld-Kornet
Klaassen.

Near Hekpoort, as we were camped at Dwarsvlei, we attacked a convoy of the enemy in the valley,
and very nearly captured it before it was reinforced. I was not present, so cannot give any
account of the battle. After a sharp trek of more than one night, we crossed the rails between
Kaalfontein and Zuurfontein Stations, just before sunrise one morning towards the middle of
January. We captured a few guards who seemed to know nothing of our movements. Why General
Beyers did not surprise one or both stations that morning early is still a mystery to us, as
our movements were remarkably quick. It could not have been because he thought us too tired,
for some twenty minutes further on, while we were resting on a farm, he ordered part of our
lager to turn to the left and attack Kaalfontein Station.

Our corporal was unwilling to work us and our horses to death, so he first got breakfast ready.
But when our cannon began to roar and Corporal Botman, who still limped from a wound, rode
off without a word in his own peculiar way, our conscience began to trouble us, and several
of our men followed him. My brother, whose horse's back was chafed, remained in the lager with
the rest of the burghers.

When we reached our guns, we immediately saw that the station could be taken only at the cost
of many lives--more than the success would be worth. Our guns had not the desired effect, and
we should have had to charge across an open space without any cover. The enemy had no guns.
They say our left wing very nearly succeeded in taking a small fort near the station, but I
cannot give any particulars, for our Veld-Kornet rode with a small troop of burghers to the
right of the station, and took another small fort which the enemy had abandoned because it
was too far away from the station. What might have been expected happened. Towards afternoon
an armoured train came from Pretoria, and reinforcements arrived from Johannesburg and scattered
our left wing over the valley. I happened to be with a few others on the outmost point of the
right wing of attack--or, rather, since the scene was changed, of the left wing of flight.
And as we were retreating at our ease an old man galloped towards us and pointed out that we
were retreating in the wrong direction, as the enemy had captured our whole lager. He had never
in his life seen so many khakies. They seemed to be on all sides of us. The only outlet for
us was in the direction of Heidelberg. I asked him, 'Uncle, are you sure that our lager is
in the hands of the khakies?' to which he answered, 'Nephew, I saw with my own eyes how they
rode up to the waggons and made all our people "hands up!"' and he continued to give us a minute
description of the occurrence.

If we had been greenhorns, we would have blindly followed the startled old man right through
the stream of retreating burghers and exploding 15-pounders. But, fortunately, the war had
taught us, and we moved on with the stream, but a little more to the left, and, I cannot deny
it, with a feeling of great anxiety as to what was to become of us if the old man had indeed
told the truth.

Fortunately, it appeared that fright had made the old man believe his own imagination, and
the lager was quite safe. My brother told me that the slight attack made upon them by the enemy
was easily beaten off.

The opinion of the majority was that we should have left Kaalfontein Station alone. We were
thoroughly exhausted by our rapid journeys, particularly by the journey of the preceding night,
and besides that the burghers were unwilling to make an attack of which they did not see the
advantage. We had several killed and wounded.

The consequence was that we had to trek that night in a way that none of us will ever forget,
to get beyond the reach of the enemy. One cannot imagine how terrible it is to sit for hours
on horseback, dead tired and overcome by sleep. We did not even guide our horses; they simply
jogged along mechanically, too tired even to object to ill-treatment. Our hands rested on the
bows of the saddles, and as we sat leaning forwards, apparently lost in thought, but in reality
suffering tortures from the effort to keep awake, we forced ourselves to look up and about
us, but our eyes half closed in the effort, and everything about us took a strange shape, and
the sky became chaos; with a nod we half awoke, only to dream again a second later that we
were falling from our horses.

Not a word was spoken, for everyone was dozing. Whenever we had to wait for our guns or waggons,
we simply flung ourselves on the grass with one arm through our bridles, and soon we were unconscious
of the pulling and tugging of the horse, and if the order to mount woke us up, the tugging
had ceased, and our horses were calmly grazing some distance from us. Then we lifted our bodies,
loaded with cartridges and guns, into the saddle at the risk of toppling over on the other
side, like a lizzard sliding down a bank, and rode on in silence, drowsily and top-heavy.

XIII

COMMANDO SUFFERINGS

The horsemen rode generally two by two, partly in front of the waggons as advance-guard, and
behind as rear-guard, each corporal with his men in his place by his Veld-Kornet. The Krugersdorpers
were no longer allowed to leave their places before they had permission from their corporal.
Even those burghers who were most disorderly in the beginning now saw the necessity of discipline,
and were obedient to the commands of their officers.

It was a mixed crew of old and young. But the majority were still in the prime of life, and
proof against the privations of guerilla life. The old men among us were all men whose powerful
constitutions were yet unbroken. It was praiseworthy of them that in their old age they were
willing to suffer the difficulties and dangers of a wandering life for their country's sake,
for although their constitutions were strong, they were susceptible to cold and damp, the effects
of which they could not shake off. There were also many brave little boys, who were thus early
initiated into the privations of commando life; but they shared all bravely, in a careless
spirit of adventure.

Here and there were some Uitlanders who had remained faithful to us. All the others had gradually
disappeared, either because they were taken prisoners, or killed through their somewhat foolhardy
courage, or because they had left the country in disappointment. The townspeople were by no
means superior to the farmers. There were traitors and 'hands-uppers' among them as well. We
have been bitterly disappointed in people of all classes, but particularly in the so-called
'gentlemen.'

Our condition and appearance were indeed striking. During the heat of the day, when the dust
lay thickly about us, we sat in our ragged clothes, with shaggy, uncombed beards, on our poor,
hardly-treated ponies, meekly staring in front of us, seemingly indifferent to the moral hurt
that we were suffering and the physical pain that we felt in all our limbs after a long, tiring
ride. At the start of one of our journeys an animated conversation sometimes helped to pass
the time, but it soon flagged, leaving us staring in front of us in the usual dispirited, dull
way. Our talk became daily more prosaic and superficial. We had not the energy to express our
deepest sentiments, and things which were formerly pleasant were strange to us now. We had
no spur to enliven our thoughts in our monotonous life. To the careless there was nothing startling
in this moral numbness, but the more sensitive among us grieved over it, and were humiliated
by the shallowness that had come into our lives.

The small necessaries of our material existence had become essential to our happiness. If we
lost a knife, or if a pot or kettle broke, or a mug was stolen from us, we were depressed for
days, as if a heavy blow had fallen upon us. It was not easy to fight against that bitter feeling
of depression. Our only safety lay in the fact that we were conscious of the demoralizing effect
of these small disappointments of commando life, for to know one's self is always the first
step towards conversion.

Some qualities of our highest nature were systematically suppressed. We prided ourselves on
our fierce hatred of the enemy, and considered it a mark of patriotism, and we rejoiced when
he fell beneath our bullets or when the plague broke out. We even wished that a great European
war might begin, if only we might keep our country, and as a consequence of our righteous patriotism
an inclination to cruelty became one of the predominant traits in the character of the burghers.

The commando life tended to make many of us melancholy. Wherever we came the thought was forced
upon us that our beloved country was deeply injured, morally and materially. We ourselves saw
everywhere homes and fields destroyed, women and children taken away by force, and cattle stolen;
and rumours told of the most terrible outrages committed upon helpless women and children.
If it were not that one becomes hardened to all outward impressions, our commando life would
have been pitiful indeed. So we became hardened to almost all these things, but the thought
of the ill-treatment of those dear to us, on whose happiness our own happiness depends, was
constantly with us, and to that we did not become hardened.

It is impossible to enter into the sufferings of the married men. Much was suffered in silence.
Some men got messages from their wives imprisoned in refugee camps, bidding them surrender
for the sake of their wives, since fighting was of no avail and the country was already lost.
Who shall blame the man who rides away with an anxious heart to his wife and children, no matter
what the consequences may be to himself? Another woman, with a different disposition and a
different heart, sends word secretly to her husband that life in the prison camp is endurable,
and that he must fight to the end. Then he stays, and proves himself worthy of the courage
of his wife.

Some men gave the impression that they were indifferent to the suffering of wife and child.
These were the scum of our people, who in time of peace were not of much importance, but were
necessary for our fight. But the majority, by far the greater majority, were men who, even
in the most troubled times, were faithful to the comrades with whom they began this struggle,
the struggle for our independence.

Whenever we came to a 'uitspanplek' (a place where there is water to be found for the horses),
some of us had to seek hurriedly for wood to make the fire, others to fetch water, and others
to help in various ways. It was a regular struggle for existence. Those who came first got
the least disagreeable work. Wood was scarce on the Hoogeveld where we happened to be, and
the water was muddied by the first water-carriers. When the sun was very warm we made a shelter
with our guns and our blankets. Our meals were simple. They consisted of meat and 'mealie-pap'
morning, noon, and night, often for weeks without salt. We made coffee of burnt grain ground
in a coffee-mill. During the war we learnt to drink all sorts of coffee--of wheat, oats, barley,
sweet potatoes, maize, and even of peaches. We became so accustomed to a simple mode of life
that our wants were few indeed. Even sugar we no longer missed. And we remained healthy and strong.

We lay in small groups round the fires, leaning against our saddles. Our moods were brighter
after our tired bodies had had the needful refreshment and rest. The groups were often picturesque,
some of us lying at our ease with soiled books in hands, others grouped round the fire, every
now and again adding wood to the flames, and others, again, picking mites out of the biltong
with a pocket-knife.

A shower had not much effect upon us. We were accustomed to letting our clothes dry on our
bodies. Nature is very kind to people who are day and night in the open air. If the sun did
not shine soon after a shower, we made a very deplorable appearance in our dripping clothes.
But we never grumbled. We were generally cheerful, unless we were exhausted from fatigue.

We suffered most on those long nights when, for some reason or other, we could not sleep, for
many of the burghers were troubled with fears for their dear ones. Often, after a long ride,
we were too tired to prepare a meal, but simply flung ourselves against our saddles and slept
before we had time to let our thoughts wander. But if the enemy were not at our heels, we often
passed the long nights in sleeplessness, gazing up at the stars with the most bitter feelings
in our hearts. No wonder that many a burgher grew gray. We were often kept awake by the tethered
horses stumbling among the groups. Sometimes a man would jump up and strike at them till all
the others awoke, too, and then there was great hilarity in the quiet of the night.

Sometimes a constant rain cast a shadow over the sunny Hoogeveld and made our lives sombre
and almost unbearable. Then our tattered garments could not dry on our bodies, and everything
about us was wet and dirty. Even in dry weather fuel was almost unattainable, for the treeless
Hoogeveld had been almost exhausted by the many large commandos which had visited the 'uitspan'
places. In wet weather it was almost an impossibility to make a fire.

Whoever had an ailment passed unpleasant nights then; each night meant a nail in his coffin.
Even the constant rain the burghers bore cheerfully, and many a joke was passed along during
an interval in the downpour. But in the morning, as we dragged our weary limbs out of our mud-baths,
shivering from cold, we did not venture to put the conventional question, 'Did you sleep well?'
to each other.

The spirit among the burghers was very different from what it had been. The land Dyaks are inferior,
both morally and physically, to the sea Dyaks. These occupy a portion of the Landu district, with
Sarawak proper, Samarahau, and Sadong, and in colour only are similar to the sea Dyaks. The
land Dyak is much shorter and weaker in frame, and is also far less skilled in the use of arms.
Cowardly, weak, and decimated by sickness, this race had up to the accession of Sir James Brooke
in 1840, led a life of slavery and oppression. Since the establishment of the Raja's government,
however, their state has greatly improved, although they are even yet a wretched set of people,
having none of the nobler instincts or courage characterising their
brethren of the sea.

The years they have passed in oppression may account for this, as also the continual state of
poverty and sickness in which they exist, their villages being seldom entirely free from dysentery
or small-pox, while nearly all are more or less afflicted with korrip, a loathsome skin disease
peculiar to the Dyak. The religion of the land Dyaks consists solely in superstitious observances,
and they are given up to the fear of ghosts. Physical evils, such as poverty, sickness, &c.,
they try to avert by sacrifices, such as the killing of goats, pigs,
&c., which they offer to these spirits.

Their belief in a future state is that when a man dies he becomes
an autu, or ghost, and lives in the forests.

Of the other races inhabiting Sarawak, and especially the Rejang district,
may be mentioned the Kayans, a powerful tribe living at the head of
the Rejang river, and occupying the vast tract of land between it
and the territory of the Sultan of Brunei in North Borneo; the Kanowits,
who take their name from the stream of that name, which rises in the
Batang Lupar Residency, and runs into the Rejang; and the Poonans,
Pakatans, Sians, and Ukits, the latter of whom are acknowledged to
be the wildest of the human race yet met with in Borneo.

Of these tribes, all with the exception of the Ukits are tattooed, unlike the Dyaks, who look
upon the practice with contempt, and say that they have no need to disfigure their faces to frighten
their enemies. A curious mixture of the Dyak and Malay races are the Milanoes. These occupy
the sea-coast and Oya, Muka, and Bintulu rivers. The custom (similar to that of the Indians on the
Mosquito shore) of flattening their children's heads is prevalent among them.

We were fortunate enough to choose the right time for our expedition to the Rejang. The gunboat
Aline was leaving Kuching for Sibu, the residence of the officer
in charge of Rejang, in a week's time after our return from Matang,
with instructions to him to proceed to Kapit, 200 miles up river in
the interior, without delay, as a small wooden fort was being erected
at that place, and required supervision.

Such an opportunity was not to be lost, and we gladly availed ourselves of the Raja's offer
to accompany the expedition.

Such a journey undertaken at our own cost and responsibility would have been next to impossible,
for, apart from the danger of travelling among unknown tribes without a guide, we should have lost
all the valuable information we were able to obtain from the Resident.

Of the Dyak language I had a slight knowledge, but this is practically useless at Kapit and
in the interior, the natives around being, both in language and customs, totally unlike Dyaks.

Daybreak
on the 16th of June saw us on board the Aline, en route for Sibu.
 We
were very anxious, therefore, to cut off the enemy's advance. They were camped to the north-west
of Boesmanskop. A strong Boer guard occupied this kopje--the, only one in the neighbourhood;
for the rest, the surroundings were the ordinary Hoogeveld with its mounds. We pushed up in
a long line over a 'bult' that ran north-west of Boesmanskop. Our guns--only a few, as most
had been sent away to be repaired--stood on top of this mound without any cover. Lieutenant
Odendaal, a very brave gunner, did not like kopjes, but always placed his cannon on a mound,
as the enemy's guns always fired too short or too long on account of the misleading distances.
They did so in this instance, and the bombs flew far beyond us. Corporal Botman ordered me
to stay with the horses at the foot of the 'bult,' while the burghers crept on to the top a
few hundred paces further, expecting eventually to charge the enemy. Suddenly I heard, twice
over, a noise like that of a train in the distance. My brother told me afterwards how he had
seen a detachment of the enemy storming Boesmanskop, and how the burghers waited until they
were close by, and then beat them back completely with a twice-repeated salvo.

For some time the guns of the enemy ceased firing, because, as I heard later on, Lieutenant
Odendaal had shot down the gunners. When they made themselves heard again, they were more accurate
in their aim; I most narrowly escaped the bombs. Four or five thundered around me in quick
succession, as I fell and stooped and grasped the bridles of the rearing horses. Some of the
horses pulled the bridles out of my hands and raced down the valley.

But the left wing of the enemy was surrounding us, and, like a swarm of birds that rise on
the wing, the burghers fled back in among the tethered and the straying horses, and retreated
as fast as they could. The enemy now bombarded Boesmanskop, so that the retreating burghers
in the valley had a bad time of it with the bombs flying over their heads.

Many waggons of Boer families, fleeing for their lives, were pushing along the sides of the
long mounds, and the enemy's bombs burst in their midst more than once--perhaps accidentally,
perhaps because they knew that 'the Boer nation must be swept off the face of the earth.'

The women seemed to be in a panic. From all sides families came in carts and waggons--long
rows of vehicles filled with poor, terror-stricken women and children; large herds of cattle
were driven along by the Kaffir servants, but many of them fell into the enemy's hands. The
burghers did their best to make a stand in order to give the waggons a good start, but retreated
in good order when they saw no chance of checking the enemy's forward movement. Fortunately,
a heavy shower fell in the afternoon and hindered the enemy in their advance, else many a waggon
would have fallen into their hands.

It was no longer necessary for the burghers to resist for the sake of the waggons. The enemy
had camped and left us, with the exception of the guard, to plod our way shamefacedly through
the mud. Our ponies, with their quick, peculiar gait, soon caught up the heavily-laden waggons,
and we supplied ourselves with mealies, flour, fowls, etc., that had been thrown overboard
or left behind on a broken-down waggon. Such is the fortune of war, and the things were better
in our hands than in those of the khakies.

When we rode up alongside the waggons, many a meeting took place between relatives and friends
who had been parted for months. The women and girls drove the horses, and many of them walked
with the Kaffirs in the mud next to the oxen. They did the work of the men in time of peace.
Many of them had been delicately nurtured, in spite of the simplicity of their lives, and were
not accustomed to the hard work. They were all Transvaal women, and wives and daughters of
the burghers who had to look on helplessly at their sad flight. And, oh! the dear little heads
of the children that peeped at us from out of the waggons! It was a cruel sight, and it moved
us strangely.

Although most of the women were drenched, they were all cheerful, and seemed proud of taking
an active part in the great struggle. And if a young man asked a girl whether he should ride
next to her to help her, the answer was: 'No, thank you, we can manage; the men must fight
now.' There were many old men and boys who preferred the society of the women to the danger
of the bombs. Some of the women were not kind, and reproached us for being the cause of all
this misery, as our appearance in the Hoogeveld had brought the enemy in its train.

The waggons were heavily laden with furniture and grain, some even with stoves, and they sank
deep into the mud, as the roads were one mass of mud after the numerous waggons and thousands
of cattle that had already passed along them. Long rows of vehicles were continually approaching
from all sides, all going in the same direction, and when we came to Waterval River a sad but
grand sight met our eyes. The river was full. Hundreds of waggons had been outspanned on the
banks on either side. The women and children were doing their best to light the fires with
the wet wood, and to cook some food. It was just before sunset, but there was no sun to cheer
them on their way.

Against the sides of the mounds (bulten) the cattle were moving in black dense masses, making
an almost deafening noise with their bleating and lowing. As we rode through the full river,
we saw in mid-stream a cart that had stuck fast. A woman was standing in the water pushing
at the back, while a girl held the reins. A few of our men jumped down from their horses and
soon succeeded in getting the cart to the other side. But we could not stay to help the poor
women and children. We rode on, inquiring everywhere after the trolleys and the commissariat.
These were higher up on the other side of the river, so we had to cross once more, this time
in the dark, at the risk of our lives.

Two little girls were drowned that evening, and the wheel of a waggon had passed over a girl's
body. He pressed the matter with naif forcefulness. Vainly I told him that there were other lands
on earth; that I was not going to America. He shook his head and sagely remarked:

"I have understood. You think my journey would cost too much. And this was only the beginning of the misery. If they had remained at home,
they might have saved their homes, but now the enemy was sure to destroy and burn the deserted
farms.

During the day, when the flight was still a novelty, the women and girls were cheerful enough,
but who can describe their heartache and misery during their enforced journey on the rainy
nights? I do not know how all those waggons and cattle got through the swollen river that night.
Twenty paces from where I lay a waggon was being inspanned; I heard the voices of men and women.
An old man was talking. He threatened to off-load all the women on the first available place,
as he had never in his life had so much trouble. A small boy and a Kaffir had their turn also;
the boy was on horseback and led, or rather dragged, another horse that refused to move. He
had to collect the cattle, which seemed to me almost an impossible task in the dark, among
the many horses of the burghers. When he had found Kindermeid, Witlies had disappeared, and
when Witlies was found, then Vaalpens was missing again. Kindermeid, a gray ox, was the most
troublesome. Repeatedly it passed by me, followed by the boy dragging the unwilling horse.
Then the boy exclaimed in sad, shrill tones, 'See how the mare jibs!' When his father angrily
asked, 'Have you found Kindermeid now?' he answered, 'Yes, father, but now Vaalpens is missing;
the mare jibs so, I can't get the cattle together!' When he had found them all and the rumbling
of their waggon was dying away in the distance, I still heard him complain of the unwilling
mare, in his sad, shrill little voice. It was a small episode in my life that I shall not easily
forget. This was the last I saw of the flight of the women, for we had to stay behind to fight
as we were retreating. Later on I heard many sad tales about it, which I cannot repeat in this
little book of mine.

The poor women and children were indeed to be pitied, but we had no sympathy with the men who
fled in the winter with their cattle to the Boschveld, and now sought our protection, though
they had never fought themselves. The flight with the cattle was necessary, as the enemy would
otherwise have exterminated them, but many of the men took advantage of the necessity, and
sometimes three or four strong, sturdy men went with one waggon, where one man would have been
ample.

XV.

BATTLE OF CHRISSIESMEER--REUNION WITH GENERAL BEYERS

I will not describe our retreat, as nothing of importance occurred. We were constantly on the
alert to move before the cunning French entrapped us within the circle that he was trying to
draw around us.

At Trichardsfontein Malherbe and I had to go in search of our horses, which had strayed, so
we were separated from our commando for some days. When we found our horses we went to Ermelo,
and stayed there until the enemy were so close upon us that General Louis Botha, who happened
to be at Ermelo, and knew of our arrival, sent to say that we must leave the town. I know Calabrian
pigs and what they feed on, though it would be hard to describe in
the language of polite society.

Despite the heat and the swarms of flies in that chamber, I felt little desire for repose after
her simple repast; the dame was so affable and entertaining that we soon became great friends.
I caused her some amusement by my efforts to understand and pronounce
her language--these folk speak Albanian and Italian with equal facility--which
seemed to my unpractised ears as hopeless as Finnish.


At Klipstapel we were allowed a few days' breathing time, and there we prepared for the night
attack on Smith-Dorrien's camp, to the north of us. But our guide lost his way in the dark,
and we had to return. It was decided, nevertheless, to attempt the attack the following night
at Chrissiesmeer, where the camp was then. We had everything in our favour. We were a strong
force of many commandos, and the enemy's force was not much larger.

