Divinity (B.D.).--The hood is black. A scarf is worn, and a cassock also is worn under the gown.

The Bachelor of Divinity is placed here for convenience of reference; but the degree is really
higher than that of an M.A. and can only be taken three years after a man has 'incepted' as M.A.

Civil Law (B.C.L.)} Medicine (B.M.)   }    The hoods are blue, Surgery (B.Ch.)   }    trimmed
with lamb's Music (B.Mus.)    }    wool.

The gown of all the above Bachelors has laced sleeves fitting to the arm, like those of the
M.A.s, but slit; the bag is straight and also trimmed with lace.

Arts (B.A.).--The hood is trimmed with lamb's wool; the gown has full sleeves, with strings
to fasten back.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 23: When a candidate had passed Responsions, he was called a 'sophista generalis'.
The title has now died out in the English Universities, but survives in the form 'sophomore'
in America.]

[Footnote 24: This adornment seems to have survived in Oxford till within the last half-century;
at all examinations subsequent to 'Responsions' a candidate, when going in for Viva Voce, had
a little black hood placed round his neck; this arrangement has now disappeared.]

[Footnote 25: The old statutes as to the dress of graduates are still in force, and partially
observed at conferment of degrees, examinations, &c., but there is consideredable slackness
as to them. It is only too common to see a Dean 'presenting' in a coloured tie, although his
undergraduates are all compelled to don a white one.]

[Footnote 26: This is delightfully commemorated in the old custom of Queen's College, by which,
at the Gaudy dinner on Jan. 1st, each guest receives a needle with a silk thread of the colour
of his faculty--Theologians black, Lawyers blue, Arts students red--and is bidden 'Take this
and be thrifty'. The mending of the hood was a duty which must have often devolved on the poor
mediaeval student. The custom dates from the time of the Founder (1340). It is sad that so
few colleges have been careful, as Queen's has been, to preserve their old customs.]

[Footnote 27: Those of royal blood, the sons of peers and members of Parliament, and those
who could prove an income of 60 marks a year, were allowed the privilege of Masters.]

[Footnote 28: i.e. if they are admitted by a college as 'noblemen', and are entered on the
books as such.]

[Footnote 29: The initials S.T.P. (Sanctae Theologiae Professor), so commonly used for Doctors
of Divinity on monuments, are simply a survival of the old usage according to which, in the
Middle Ages, Doctor, Professor, and Master were synonymous terms for the highest degree. It
was only later that 'professor' came to be especially applied to a paid teacher in any subject.]

CHAPTER VI

THE PLACES OF THE DEGREE CEREMONY

The University of Oxford confers its degrees in three rooms, the Sheldonian Theatre, the Divinity
School, and the Convocation House; the choice rests with the Vice-Chancellor, and now that,
in the last year or so, degree-days have been made less frequent, and there are consequently
more candidates on each occasion, the place is often the Sheldonian. This is a great improvement
on old custom, for it is the only one of the three buildings which was designed for the purpose,
and it is also the only one which gives room for the proper conduct of the ceremony, when the
number of candidates is large.

[Sidenote: The Sheldonian.]

The Sheldonian, therefore, commonly known in Oxford as 'The Theatre', will be spoken of first,
although it is the last in date of construction. It is a memorial at once of the munificence
of one of the greatest among Oxford's many episcopal benefactors, and also of the architectural
skill of her most eminent architect, Sir Christopher Wren. Down to the time of the Civil War,
the ceremony of the 'Act' (cf. p. 27 seq.) at which degrees were conferred, had taken place
in St. Mary's; but the influence of the Puritans was beginning to affect all parties, and was
causing the growth of a feeling that religious buildings should not be used for secular purposes.
John Evelyn, who gives us our fullest account of the opening ceremony at the Sheldonian, notes
that it might be thought 'indecent' that the Act should be held in a 'building set apart for
the immediate worship of God'[30], and this was 'the inducement for building this noble pile'.
Wren had shown his design to the Royal Society in 1663, and it had been much commended; he
was only a little more than thirty years of age, and it was his first public building, but
he was already known as that 'miracle of a youth' and that 'prodigious young scholar', and
he fully justified the Archbishop's confidence in him. So great was this that Sheldon told
Evelyn that he had never seen the building and that he never intended to do so. Wren showed
his boldness alike in the style he chose--he broke once for all with the Gothic tradition in
Oxford--and in the skill with which he designed a roof which was (and is) one of the largest
unsupported roofs in England. The construction of it was a marvel of ingenious design.

[Sidenote: Its Dedication.]

The cost of the whole building was £25,000, as Wren told Evelyn, and architects, even the greatest
of them, do not usually over-estimate the cost of their designs; but other authorities place
it at £16,000, or even at a little over £12,000. At any rate, it was felt to be, as Evelyn
writes, 'comparable to any of this kind of former ages, and doubtless exceeding any of the
present, as this University does for colleges, libraries, schools, students and order, all
the universities in the world.' We may pardon the enthusiasm of one who was himself an Oxford
man, after a day on which 'a world of strangers and other company from all parts of the nation'
had been gathered for the Dedication. The ceremonies lasted two days (July 9 and 10, 1669),
and on the first day extended 'from eleven in the morning till seven at night'; we are not
told how long they lasted on the second day. They consisted of speeches, poems, disputations,
and all the other forms of learned gaiety wherein our academic predecessors took such unwearying
delight; there was 'music too, vocal and instrumental, in the balustrade corridor opposite
to the Vice-Chancellor's seat'. And those who took part had among them some who bore famous
names; the great preacher, South, was Public Orator; among the D.D.s incepting were Tillotson,
afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury, one of the first to introduce Modern English into the
style of the pulpit, and Compton, who, as Bishop of London, took so prominent a part in the
Revolution.

[Sidenote: The Roof Paintings.]

Not the least conspicuous feature in the new building was the paintings by Robert Streater,
which had been especially executed for it. In accordance with the idea of Wren, who wished
to imitate the uncovered roofs of Greek and Roman theatres, the building, 'by the painting
of the flat roof within, is represented as open.' Pepys, who went to see everything, records
how he went to see these pictures in Streater's studio, and how the 'virtuosos' who were looking
at them, thought 'them better than those of Rubens at Whitehall'; 'but,' Pepys has taste enough
to add, 'I do not fully think so.' This unmeasured admiration was, however, outdone by the
contemporary poetaster, Whitehall, who ends his verses on the paintings,

   That future ages must confess they owe
   To Streater more than Michael Angelo,

lines in which the grammar and the connoisseurship are about on an equality. The paintings
are on canvas fixed on stretchers, and hence have been removed for cleaning purposes more than
once; this was last done only a few years ago (1899-1901). There are thirty-two sections, and
the whole painting measures 72 feet by 64. Unfortunately the subject is rendered difficult
to understand, because the most important section, which is the key of the whole, representing
'The Expulsion of Ignorance', is practically concealed by the organ; the present instrument
was erected in 1877.

[Sidenote: The Sheldonian Press.]

Sheldon's building was designed for a double use. It was to be at once the University Theatre
and the University Printing Press, and it was used for the latter purpose till 1714, when the
Oxford Press was moved across the quadrangle to the Clarendon Building, designed by Sir John
Vanbrugh. The actual printing was done in the roof, on the floor above the painted ceiling.
The Theatre is for this reason the mark on all Oxford books printed during the first half-century
of its existence. In one respect Archbishop Sheldon was so unlike most Oxford benefactors that
his merit must be especially mentioned. Men are often willing enough to give a handsome sum
of money down to be spent on buildings; they too often leave to others the charge of maintaining
these; but Sheldon definitely informed the University that he did not wish his benefaction
to be a burden to it, and invested £2,000 in lands, out of the rents of which his Theatre might
be kept in repair. The Sheldonian, thanks to its original donor and to the ever liberal Dr.
Wills of Wadham, who supplemented the endowment a century later, has never been a charge on
the University revenues.

[Sidenote: The Restoration of the Sheldonian.]

Unfortunately these repairs have been carried out with more zeal than discretion. Even in Wren's
lifetime the alarm was raised that the roof was dangerous (1720), but the Vice-Chancellor of
the time was wise enough not to consult a rival architect but to take the practical opinion
of working masons and carpenters, who reported it safe. Nearly 100 years later the same alarm
was raised, whether with reason or not we do not know, for no records were left; all we do
know is that the 'restorers' of the day took Wren's roof off, removed his beautiful windows,
inserted a new and larger cupola, and generally did their best to spoil his work. It is only
necessary to compare the old pictures of the Sheldonian with its present state to see how in
this case, as in so many others, Oxford's architectural glories have suffered from our insane
unwillingness to let well alone.

[Sidenote: The History of the Sheldonian.]

The Sheldonian was not in existence during the period when University history was most picturesque.
Its associations therefore are nearly all academic, and academic functions, however interesting
to those who take part in them, do not appeal to the great world. Perhaps the most romantic
scene that the Sheldonian has witnessed was the Installation of the Duke of Wellington as Chancellor
in 1833, when the whole theatre went mad with enthusiasm as the writer of the Newdigate, Joseph
Arnould of Wadham, declaimed his lines on Napoleon,--

   And the dark soul a world could scarce subdue
   Bent to thy genius, chief of Waterloo.

The subject of the poem was 'The Monks of St. Bernard'.

But the enthusiasm was almost as great, and the poetry far superior, when Heber recited the
best lines of the best Newdigate on record:--

   No hammer fell, no ponderous axes swung;
   Like some tall palm the mystic fabric sprung.
   Majestic silence.

This happy reference to the manner of building of Solomon's Temple was suggested by Sir Walter
Scott.

Another almost historic occasion in the Sheldonian was when, at a Diocesan Conference, the
late Lord Beaconsfield made his well-known declaration, 'I for my part prefer to be on the
side of the angels.' But these scenes only indirectly touch Oxford. More intimately connected
with her history are the famous Proctorial Veto of 1845, when Dean Church and his colleague
saved Tract No. 90 from academic condemnation, and the stormy debates of twenty years ago,
when the permission to use Vivisection in the University Physiological Laboratory was only
carried after a struggle in which the Odium Scientificum showed itself capable of an unruliness
and an unfairness to opponents which has left all displays, previous or subsequent, of Odium
Theologicum far behind.

[Sidenote: Commemoration Scenes.]

There is no doubt that the organized medical vote on that occasion holds the record for noise
in the Theatre. And the competition for the record has been and is still severe; every year
at Commemoration, we have a scene of academic disorder, which can only be called 'most unbecoming
of the gravity of the University', to use John Evelyn's words of the performance of the Terrae
Filius at the opening of the Sheldonian. It is true that the proceedings of the Encaenia have
been always able to be completed, since the device was hit on of seating ladies freely among
the undergraduates in the upper gallery; this change was introduced in 1876. The disorder of
the undergraduates' gallery had culminated in 1874, and in 1875 the ceremony was held in the
Divinity School. But the noise is as prevalent as ever, and it must be confessed that undergraduates'
wit has suffered severely from the feminine infusion. However, our visitors, distinguished
and undistinguished alike, appreciate the disorder, and it certainly has plenty of precedent
for it in all stages of University history.

But the Sheldonian has more harmonious associations. Music was from the first a regular feature
of the Encaenia, and compositions were written for it. The most famous occasion of this kind
was in July, 1733, when Handel came to Oxford, at the invitation of the Vice-Chancellor, to
conduct the performance of some of his works; among these was the Oratorio Athaliah, especially
written for the occasion. Handel was offered the degree of Doctor of Music, but (unlike Haydn)
declined it, because he disliked 'throwing away his money for dat de blockhead wish'.

[Sidenote: Convocation House.]

Till quite recently the degree ceremony was usually held in the Convocation House, which lies
just in front of the Sheldonian, under the northern end of the Bodleian Library (the so-called
Selden Wing). This plain and unpretentious building, which was largely due to the munificence
of Archbishop Laud, was begun in 1635 and finished two years later. It cost, with the buildings
above, about £4,200. Its dreary late-Gothic windows and heavy tracery, and the Spartan severity
of its unbacked benches, are characteristic of the time of transition, alike architectural
and religious, to which it belongs. It has been from that time to this the Parliament House
of the University, where all matters are first discussed by the Congregation of resident Doctors
and Masters; it is only on the rare occasions when some great principle is at stake, and when
the country is roused, that matters, whether legislative or administrative, are discussed anywhere
else; a Sheldonian debate is fortunately very rare.

[Sidenote: Its History.]

The building is well suited for the purpose for which it was erected, and so has not unnaturally
been used as the meeting-place of the nation's legislators, when, as has several times happened,
Parliament has been gathered in Oxford. Charles I's House of Commons met here in 1643, when
Oxford was the royalist capital of England; and in 1665, when Parliament fled from the Great
Plague, and in 1681, when Charles II fought and defeated the last Exclusion Parliament, the
House of Commons again occupied this House. It was on the latter occasion just preparing to
move across to the Sheldonian, and the printers there were already packing up their presses
to make room for the legislators, when Charles suddenly dissolved it, and so completed his
victory over Shaftesbury and Monmouth.

A less suitable use for the Convocation House was its employment for Charles I's Court of Chancery
in 1643-4.

For the reasons given above, degree days are now much more important functions than they used
to be, and the Convocation House, never very suitable for the ceremony, is now seldom used.

[Sidenote: Divinity School.]

But the Divinity School, which lies at a right angle to the Convocation House, under the Bodleian
Library proper, is a room which by its beauty is worthy to be the scene of any University ceremony,
for which it is large enough, and degrees are still often conferred there as well as in the
Sheldonian.

The architecture of the School makes it the finest room which the University possesses. It
was building through the greater part of the fifteenth century, which Professor Freeman thought
the most characteristic period of English architecture; and certainly the strength and the
weakness of the Perpendicular style could hardly be better illustrated elsewhere. The story
of its erection can be largely traced in the Epistolae Academicae, published by the Oxford
Historical Society; they cover the whole of the fifteenth century, and though they are wearisome
in their constant harping on the same subject--the University's need of money--they show a
fertility of resource in petition-framing and in the returning of thanks, which would make
the fortune of a modern begging-letter writer, whether private or public. By which thou may'st see,
myne own good daughter, what a great difference there is between such as have spent all their days in
a religious, hard, and penitential life, and such as have (as thy poore father hath done) consumed
all their time in pleasure and ease;'" and so he proceeded to enlarge on their merits and martyrdom.
His grandson, Cresacre More, referring to this scene, says, "By which most humble and heavenly
meditation, we may easily guess what a spirit of charity he had gotten by often meditation, that
every sight brought him new matter to practice most heroical resolutions."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] After the death of More, this favorite home of his, where he had so frequently gathered "a
choice company of men distinguished by their genius and learning," passed into the rapacious
hands of his bad sovereign, and by him was presented to Sir William Pawlet, ultimately Lord High
Treasurer and Marquis of Winchester; from his hands it passed into
Lord Dacre's, to whom succeeded Lord Burghley; then followed his son,
the Earl of Salisbury, as its master; from him it passed successively
to the Earl of Lincoln, Sir Arthur Gorges, the Earl of Middlesex,
Villiers duke of Buckingham, Sir Bulstrode Whitelock, the second Duke
of Buckingham, the Earl of Bristol, the Duke of Beaufort, and ultimately
to Sir Hans Slonne, who obtained it in 1738, and after keeping it
for two years razed it to the ground; an unhappy want of reverence
on the part of the great naturalist for the home of so many great men.

There is a print of it by J. Knyff, in 1699, which is copied (p.
292); it shows some old features, but it had then been enlarged and
altered.

Erasmus has well described it as it was in More's lifetime. It had "a chapel, a library, and a
gallery, called the New Buildings, a good distance from his main house, wherein his custom was
to busy himself in prayer and meditation, whensoever he was at leisure." Heywood, in his II
Moro (Florence, 1556), describes "the garden as wonderfully charming, both from the advantages
of its site, for from one part almost the whole of the noble city of London was visible, and
from the other the beautiful Thames, with green meadows by woody eminences all around, and also for
its own beauty, for it was crowned with an almost perpetual verdure." At one side was a small
green eminence to command the prospect.

[2] The conduct of this great man's house was a model to all, and
as near an approach to his own Utopia as might well be.

The servant-men abode on one side of the house, the women on another, and met at prayer-time,
or on church festivals, when More would read and expound to them. He suffered no cards or dice,
but gave each one his garden-plot for relaxation, or set them to sing or play music. He had
an affection for all who truly served him, and his daughters' nurse is as affectionately remembered
in his letters when from home as are they themselves.


FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 30: The buffooneries of the Terrae Filius, who was a recognized part of the 'Act',
would be even more shocking in a consecrated building than merely secular business.]

APPENDIX I

THE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

I. Degrees are given and examiners appointed by the Ancient House of Congregation. This corresponds
to the 'Congregation of Regents' of the Laudian Statutes. Its members are the University officials,
the professors, the heads and deans of colleges, all examiners, and the 'necessary regents',
i.e. Doctors and Masters of Arts of not more than two years' standing; it thus includes all
those who have to do with the conduct, the instruction, or the examination of students. The
'necessary regents' are added, because in the mediaeval University the duty of teaching was
imposed on Doctors and Masters of not more than two years' standing; others might 'rule the
Schools' if they pleased, but the juniors were bound to discharge this duty unless dispensed.

II. Congregation consists of all those members of Convocation who reside within two miles of
Carfax, along with certain officials. This body has nothing to do with degrees; it is the chief
legislative body of Oxford.

III. Convocation is made up of all Doctors and Masters whose names are on the University's
books. It confirms the appointment of examiners, and confers honorary degrees at Commemoration.

It is also the final legislative body of the University, and controls all expenditure.

APPENDIX II

THE UNIVERSITY STAVES

The old University staves, which are now in the Ashmolean Museum at the University Galleries,
seem to date from the reign of Elizabeth; they have no hall-marks, but the character of the
ornamentation is of that period. No doubt the mediaeval staves perished in the troubles of
the Reformation period, along with other University property, and the new ones were procured
when Oxford began to recover her prosperity.

Two of the old staves were discovered in 1895 in a box on the top of a high case in the Archives;
their very existence had been forgotten, and they were covered with layers of dust. The legend
that they had been concealed there by the loyal Bedels must be given up; no doubt they were
put away when the present staves were procured in 1723. The third staff was in the keeping
of the Esquire Bedel, and was brought to the University Chest, when that office ceased to exist.

The present staves are six in number, three silver and three silver-gilt. The three former
are carried by the Bedel of Arts and the two sub-bedels, the three latter are carried by the
Bedels of the three higher faculties, Divinity, Law, and Medicine. All of them date (as is
proved by the hall-marks) from 1723, except one of the silver staves, which seems to have been
renewed in 1803. The three silver staves bear the following inscriptions:--

No. I. On the top 'Ego sum Via'; on the base 'Veritas et Vita'.

No. II. On the top 'Aequum et Bonum'; on the base 'Iustitiae Columna'.

No. III. On the top 'Scientiae et Mores'; on the base 'Columna Philosophiae'.

The inscriptions are the same on the silver-gilt staves, except that the staff of the Bedel
of Divinity has all the mottoes on it--'Ego sum Via', 'Veritas et Vita' on the top, and the
others on the base.

The letters on the bases of all the staves are put on the reverse way to those on the tops;
this is because the staves are carried in different ways; before the King and the Chancellor
they are carried upright, before the Vice-Chancellor always in a reversed position, with the
base uppermost.

It should be noted that they are staves and not maces, as the University of Oxford derives
its authority from no external power, but is independent.

The arms on the tops of three of the staves present a very curious puzzle; one roundel bears
those of Neville and Montagu quarterly, and seems to be a reproduction of the arms of the Chancellor
of 1455, George Neville, the Archbishop of York; another bears the old Plantagenet 'England
and France quarterly' as borne by the sovereigns from Henry IV to Elizabeth; a third the Stuart
arms as borne from James I to Queen Anne; yet the work of all three roundels seems to be seventeenth
century in character, and does not match that of the rest of the fabric of the staves.

INDEX

'Act,' meaning of, 27;
  term, 28;
  confused with Encaenia, 31-2.

Aristotle, portions read of, 18, 37.

Arnould, J., 85.

Bachelor (of Arts), etymology of, 24;
  in France, 47;
  dress of, 69, 78;
  hood of, 66, 71, 78;
  when taken, 35, 43.

---- of Divinity, qualification for, 30;
  dress of, 77.

Bands worn, 68.

Beaconsfield, Lord, 86.

Beaufort, Cardinal, 91.

Bedels, history of, 54 seq.;
  caps of, 72;
  at degrees, 4, 17.

Bodleian, 88, 89.

Boots to be worn, 65.

Caius, Dr., 61.

Cambrensis, G., 22.

Cambridge, dress of Vice-Chancellor at, 69;
  degree ceremonies at, 28-9;
  King's College, 40 n.;
  gowns at, 68.

Candidates (for degrees), dress of, 1;
  presentation of, 11;
  oath of, 13;
  admission of, 15, 17.

Cap, 71 seq.

Cappa, 69, 70.

Chancellor, origin of, 22, 26;
  authority of, 50;
  non-resident, 51.

Chichele, Archbishop, 90.

Church and University, 25.

Church, Dean, 86.

Circuitus, 44.

Collecta, 37.

'Commencement' in American Universities, 23.

Commemoration, origin of, 31;
  description of, 32-3;
  noise at, 86-7;
  music at, 87.

Compton, H., 82.

Congregation, 88, 93.

---- Ancient House of, 93;
  degrees conferred in, 4, 5;
  nominates examiners, 4.

Convocation, 93;
  business in, 4.

---- House, 88 seq.

Cranmer, Archbishop, 92.

Crewe, Lord, 32;
  oration of, 32.

Degrees, meaning of, 24;
  order of taking, 6-7;
  elements in, 27;
  requirements for, 34 seq.;
  in absence, 18;
  ad eundem, 18;
  Lambeth, 27;
  honorary, 32.

---- ceremony, admittance to, 2;
  notice of, 3.

D.C.L., 32; dress of, 75.

D.D., first, 22;
  qualifications for, 30;
  dress of, 69, 75-6; cap of, 72;
  theses for, 30, 92.

Depositio, 45.

Divinity School, 87, 89 seq.

D.M., dress of, 75.

D.Mus., dress of, 76;
  Haydn, 76;
  Handel, 87;
  Richter, 76.

Doctorate, German, 47;
  qualifications for, 76;
  presentation for, 11, 63.

Eglesfield, R., 68, 70 n.

Encaenia, see Commemoration; etymology of, 31 n.

Evelyn, J., 28, 80, 81, 87.

Examinations, mediaeval, 41 seq.;
  control of, 52.

Fell, Dr., 53.

Friars at Oxford, 46.

Gibbon, E., quoted, 24.

Gowns, 69, 75 seq.;
  proposed abolition of, 54.

'Graces,' college, 5, 6;
  University, 38 seq., 59.

Green, J.R., quoted, 33.

Heber, R., 85.

Hoods, 70-1, 75 seq.

'Inception,' 19, 29, 31.

Key, T., 60.

Laud, 'Grace' for, 39;
  and Proctorial election, 59;
  portrait of, 72;
  munificence of, 88.

Laudian Statutes, quoted, 4, 6, 18, 40;
  oath in, 13;
  greater strictness of, 67.

Lectures required for degree, 36;
  rules as to, 36-7;
  fees for, 37;
  cutting of, 38;
  college, 37.

'Licence,' origin of, 26;
  conferred, 27.

London, J., 60.

Margaret, the Lady, 55.

Master of Arts, admission of, 15;
  association of, 23;
  old qualifications for, 29, 43, 47;
  modern, 49;
  privileges of, 31;
  M.A.s term, 48;
  gowns of, 64, 69, 77;
  hood of, 71, 74, 77.

Master in Grammar, 28.

Masters of the Schools, 42.

Matriculation, 25.

'Nations,' divisions into, 58.

Neville, G., Chancellor, 51;
  arms of, 95.

New College, privilege of, 40.

Paris, University of, 23;
  examinations at, 41;
  Oxford and, 26 n.

Parliaments at Oxford of Charles I and Charles II, 89.

Parvis of St. Mary's, Examinations in, 42.

Pepys, S., 82.

Pig Market, the, 57 n.

'Plucking,' 10.

Pope and universities, 26.

Printing Press, 83, 89.

Proctors, history of, 57 seq.;
  walk of, 9;
  charge by, 12, 14, 17;
  'books' of, 19 n.;
  dress of, 77.

Professor, original meaning of, 75 n.;
  presentations by, 11 n., 62-3.

Queen's College, customs of, 70 n.

Rashdall, Dr., quoted, 40 n., 55.

Registrar, history of, 60 seq.;
  duties of, 5, 61.

Residence for degree, 34;
  relaxations as to, 35, 47.

Responsions, 42.

Rich, E., 22-3.

St. Mary's, 80;
  bell of, 3.

Scott, Sir W., 86.

Sheldon, G., 80, 84.

Sheldonian, history of, 79 seq.;
  dedication of, 31, 81;
  roof of, 82;
  organ, 83;
  alteration of, 84.

Sophisters, 65.

South, R., 82.

Staves, description of, 94;
  Puritan 'Visitors', 55-6.

Streater, R., 82.

Studium Generale, 21 n., 26.

Supplicat, 8, 9.

Tailors, Oxford, 66, 74;
  statute as to, 64.

Terrae Filius at 'Act', 33, 54, 80 n.

Testamur, 61.

Tillotson, J., 82.

Tom Brown, quoted, 48. 

His grandson, in his Life, says, "his body was buried in the Chapel
of St. Peter, in the Tower, in the belfry, or, as some say, as one
entereth into the vestry;" and he does not notice the story of his
daughter's re-interment of it elsewhere.



Vivisection, debate on, 86.

Wellington, Duke of, 85.

White ties, 68.

Wills, J., 84.

Wood, A., quoted, 53, 54.

Wren, Sir C., 80, 81, 84.

Wykeham, W. of, 40.

Oxford: Printed at the Clarendon Press by HORACE HART, M.A.