THE ERA OF DISCOVERY
  III.    THE ERA OF COLONIZATION
  IV.     THE COLONIAL ERA
  V.      THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
  VI.     SOCIETY IN 1776
  VII.    THE REVOLUTION
  VIII.   THE CONFEDERATION AND CONSTITUTION
  IX.     WASHINGTON'S PRESIDENCY
  X.      THE WAR OF 1812
  XI.     THE MEXICAN WAR
  XII.    THE SLAVERY AGITATION
  XIII.   THE CIVIL WAR
  XIV.    THE PRESIDENTS
  XV.     MATERIAL PROGRESS
  XVI.    PROGRESS IN LITERATURE
  XVII.   PROGRESS IN THE ARTS
  XVIII.  PROGRESS IN SCIENCE AND INVENTION
  XIX.    POLITICAL CHANGES

THE NATION IN A NUTSHELL

AN OUTLINE OF

AMERICAN HISTORY.

I.

AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES.

[Sidenote: Geology and Archaeology.]

The sciences of geology and archaeology, working side by side, have made a wonderful progress
in the past half a century. The one, seeking for the history and transformations of the physical
earth, and the other, aiming to discover the antiquity, differences of race, and social and
ethnical development of man, have obtained results which we cannot regard without amazement
and more or less incredulity. The two sciences have been faithful handmaidens the one to the
other; but geology has always led the way, and archaeology has been competed to follow in its path.

[Sidenote: Four Eras of Civilization.]

Though we may doubt as to the exactness of the detailed data established by the archaeologists,
there are certain broad facts which we must accept from them as established beyond doubt. These
facts are of the highest value and interest. The corporation of Lowell has built streets of convenient
houses, for the accommodation of the workmen; and nine-tenths of these are occupied by the
unmarried. These houses are farmed by the corporation to elderly females, whose characters
must bear the strictest investigation, and at a rent just paying a low rate of interest for the
outlay. They carry on the business under strict rules, which limit the numbers, and determine
the accommodation of the inmates, two of whom sleep in one room.


[Sidenote: Ancient America.]

In the same way it has been established that, on our own continent, the oldest discoverable
civilization was one in which rude stone implements were used, and man lived contemporaneously
with the megatherium and the mastodon. Then polished and worked stone implements came into
use; and after the lapse of ages, copper. The researches of our antiquaries have rendered it
probable that America is as ancient, as an inhabited continent, as Europe. Evidences have been
brought to light, leading to the conclusion that many thousands of years before the Christian
era, America was the seat of a civilization far from rude or savage. Groping into the remains
of the far past, we find skeletons, skulls, implements of war, and even basket-work, buried
in geological strata, which have been overlaid by repeated convulsions and changes of the physical
earth. But so few are the relics of this dim, primeval period, that we can only conclude its
antiquity, and we can infer little or nothing of its characteristics.

[Sidenote: Primeval Races.]

Advancing, however, another stage in research and discovery, we come upon clear and overwhelming
proofs of the existence on this continent of a great, enterprising, skilful, and even artistic
people, spread over an immense area, and leaving behind them the most positive testimony, not
only of their existence, but of their manners and customs, their arts, their trade, their methods
of warfare, and their religion and worship. Compared with this people, the Red Indians found
here by the Pilgrims and the Cavaliers were modern intruders upon the land. These ancient Americans,
indeed, were far superior in all respects to the Red Indian of our historic acquaintance. When
the Red Indians replaced them, the civilization of the continent fell from a high to a much
lower plane.

[Sidenote: The Mound-Builders.]

The great race of which I speak is known as "the Mound-Builders." Like the "Wall-Builders"
of Greece and Italy, they stand out, in the light of their remains, as distinctly as if we
had historical records of them. The Mound-Builders occupied, often in thickly settled communities,
the region about our great Northern Lakes, the valleys of the Mississippi, the Ohio, the Missouri,
and the regions watered by the affluents of these rivers, and a wide and irregular belt along
the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. There is little or no evidence that the same race inhabited
any part of the country now occupied by the Eastern and Middle States; but some few traces
of them are found in North and South Carolina.

[Sidenote: Ancient Mounds.]

The chief relics left by this comparatively polished race are the very numerous mounds, or
artificial hills, found scattered over the country. These are sometimes ten, and sometimes
forty and fifty, feet in height, with widely varying bases. They present many forms; they are
circular and pyramidal, square and polygonal, and in some places are manifestly imitations
of the shapes of beasts, birds, and human beings. There are districts where hundreds of these
mounds appear within a limited area. Sometimes--as at Aztalan, in Wisconsin, and at Newark,
in the Licking Valley--a vast series of earthwork enclosures is discovered, sometimes with
embankments twelve feet high and fifty broad, within which are variously shaped mounds, definitely
formed avenues, and passages and ponds. These enclosures amply prove, aside from the geological
evidences of their antiquity, the existence of a race very different from the Red Indians.
They were clearly a people not nomadic, but with fixed settlements, cultivators of the soil,
and skilful in the art of military defence.

[Sidenote: Altars and Temples.]

The excavations of the wonderful mounds have brought to light many things more curious than
the mounds themselves. It seems to be established that the mounds were used for four distinct
purposes. They were altars for sacrifice, and, like the Persians, whose sacrificial ceremonies
strikingly resembled those of the Mound-Builders, they were sun-worshippers. They offered up
the most costly gifts, and even human victims. The pyramidal mounds, with avenues leading to
the summits, were the sites of the stately sun and moon temples. Here, undoubtedly, imposing
ceremonies were often performed. The lower or "knoll" mounds were used as the sepulchres of
the dead. They yield up to the modern antiquary numberless skulls, of a type distinctly different
from those of the Red Indians. The Mound-Builders buried their dead, most often, in a sitting
posture, adorned with shell beads and ivory ornaments. Sometimes the dead were burned. Finally,
the mounds were employed as points of observation.

[Sidenote: Relics of the Mounds.]

[Sidenote: Early Arts.]

That the Mound-Builders were a far more civilized race than the Indians is clearly revealed
by the relics found in and about the mounds. They have left behind them thousands of flint
arrow-heads, many of beautiful workmanship. They used spades, rimmers, borers, celts, axes,
fleshers, scrapers, pestles, and other implements whose use cannot now be determined, made
of various stones, such as porphyry, greenstone, and feldspar. They knew well the use of tobacco,
for among their most artistic and elaborately carved remains are pipes, some of them representing
animals and human heads. It seems to be certain that they had even attained the art of weaving
cloth fabrics; for pieces of cloth, of a material akin to hemp, have been found in the mounds,
with uniform and regularly spun threads, and every evidence that they were woven by some deft
invention or mechanical device. It is certain that the Red Indian was ignorant of this valuable
art.

[Sidenote: Primeval Mining.]

Among the highly wrought remains of the mounds are fanciful water-jugs, well carved and symmetrical
in shape, some of which were evidently made to keep water cool. The human heads represented
on these bear no resemblance to the Indian types. Drinking cups with carved rims and handles,
sepulchral urns with curious ornaments, kettles and other pieces of skilful pottery, copper
chisels, axes, knives, awls, spear and arrow heads, and even bracelets, come to light, here
and there. There is no doubt that the Mound-Builders were miners. For, on the southern shores
of Lake Superior, great excavations indicate an extensive and skilful mining of copper at a
very remote period. It is singular, on the other hand, that no iron implement has ever been
discovered in the mounds. The builders used iron-ore as a stone, but never learned the art
of moulding it into weapons or utensils.

Thus the fact that vast areas of what are now the United States were once occupied by an active,
skilful, imaginative, and progressive race, seems fully established. Not less certain is it
that in their physical type, in their government, in their arts, habits, and daily pursuits,
they were separated by a wide gap from the Red Indians whom our ancestors found in possession
of the continent. The Indian was roving, and hunted for subsistence. The Mound-Builders were
sedentary, and undoubtedly cultivated maize as their chief article of food.

[Sidenote: Origin of the Mound-Builders.]

But how remote the Mound-Builders were from the era of European settlement, whence they came;
how, whither, and when they vanished,--these are questions before which science stands harassed,
impotent to answer positively. There are those who, marking certain apparent resemblances between
the implements, religious rites and customs, and cranial formations, of the Mound-Builders,
and those of the Asiatic Mongols, conclude that the former were originally Asiatic hordes,
who, crossing Behring Straits, when, perhaps, the two continents were united at that point,
formed a new home and established a new empire here. Others, with more proof, connect them
with that great Toltec race which occupied Central America and Mexico, before they were driven
out by the ruder and more warlike Aztecs.

[Sidenote: The Aztecs.]

The Toltecs have left ample records of their existence and gorgeous civilization, in noble
monuments and very numerous though till recently undecipherable inscriptions; and many similarities
lend weight to the theory that the empire of the Mound-Builders, in the Ohio, Mississippi,
and Missouri valleys, was the result of a great Toltec migration from Central America, which
they left to Aztec dominion. Thus while we call our continent the "New World," it is not improbable
that we may be living in a country which was alive with art, splendor, invention, and power,
when Europe was a dreary waste, over which the now extinct monsters roamed unmolested by man.

II.

THE ERA OF DISCOVERY.

[Sidenote: Historic Myths.]

We live in times when the researches of scholars are minute, pitiless, and exhaustive, and
when no hitherto received historical fact is permitted to escape the ordeal of the most critical
scrutiny. Many are the cherished historical beliefs which have latterly been assailed with
every resource of logical argument and formidably arrayed proofs, unearthed by tireless diligence
and pursuit. Thus we are told that the story of William Tell is a romantic myth; that Lucretia
Borgia, far from being a poisoner and murderess, was really a very estimable person; and that
the siege of Troy was a very insignificant struggle, between armies counted, not by thousands,
but by hundreds.

In the same way the old familiar question, "Who discovered America?" which every school-boy
was formerly as prompt to answer as to his age and name, has in recent years become a perplexing
problem of historical disputation; and at least can no longer be accurately answered by the
name of the gallant and courageous Genoese who set forth across the Atlantic in 1492.

[Sidenote: Icelandic Discoverers.]

Bancroft, on the first page of his history, pronounces the story of the discovery of our country
by the Icelandic Northmen, a narrative "mythological in form and obscure in meaning"; and adds
that "no clear historical evidence establishes the natural probability that they accomplished
the passage." But the first volume of Bancroft was published in 1852. Since then, the proofs
of the discovery of the continent by the Icelanders, very nearly five hundred years before
Columbus was thrilled with the delight of beholding the Bahamas, have multiplied and grown
to positive demonstration. They no longer rest upon vague traditions; they have assumed the
authority of explicit and well attested records.

[Sidenote: Discoverers of America.]

The discovery of the New England coast by the Icelanders is the earliest which, down to the
present, can be positively asserted. But it has been recently urged that there are some evidences
of American discovery by Europeans or Asiatics long prior to Leif Erikson. There are certain
indications that the Pacific coast was reached by Chinese adventurers in the remote past; and
it is stated that proofs exist in Brazil tending to show that South America was discovered
by Phoenicians five hundred years before Christ. The story is said to be recorded on some brass
tablets found in northern Brazil, which give the number of the vessels and crews, state Sidon
as the port to which the voyagers belonged, and even describe their route around the Cape of
Good Hope and along the west coast of Africa, whence the trade-winds drifted them across the
Atlantic.

[Sidenote: Icelandic Voyagers.]

Confining ourselves to credible history, it appears that in the year 986 (eighty years before
the conquest of England by William of Normandy), an Icelandic mariner named Bjarne Herrjulson,
making for Greenland in his rude bark, was swept across the Atlantic, and finally found himself
cast upon dry land. He made haste to set sail on his return voyage, and succeeded in getting
safely back to Iceland. He told his story of the strange land beyond the seas; and so pleased
had he been with its pleasant and fruitful aspect that he named it "Vineland."

[Sidenote: Leif Erikson.]

The story of Bjarne impressed itself upon an intelligent and adventurous man, Leif Erikson;
who, having purchased Bjarne's ship, set sail for Vineland in the year 1000, with a crew of
thirty-five men. He reached what is now Cape Cod, and passed the winter of 1000-1 on its shores.
Returning to Iceland, his example was followed, two years later, by another Erikson, who established
a colony on the shores of Narragansett Bay, not far from Fall River, where the founder died
and was buried.

[Sidenote: Columbus in Iceland.]

It is well nigh certain that Christopher Columbus, in the year 1477, visited Iceland, and even
sailed one hundred leagues beyond it, discovering there an unfrozen sea. The idea of western
discovery was already in his mind, and he had received hints of a western continent, from certain
carved objects picked up in the Atlantic by other navigators. It is altogether probable that
the conjectures of Columbus were confirmed into conviction by the Icelandic traditions of Leif's
discovery, during his sojourn at Rejkjawik. From this time Columbus was more than ever intent
upon the enterprise which, fifteen years after, conferred upon him imperishable glory.

[Sidenote: Voyage of Columbus.]

The story of Columbus is, or should be, familiar to every American who can read. He was pitiless,
selfish, and cold. Less fiery than his fellows, he had an amount of caution, which made them
feel his value; and a ready wit, which often helped them out of difficulties. His influence was
soon felt, and he became a kind of chief. He was at last recognised as the head of the village,
and the leader in all marauding expeditions. But the great source of his power was his foresight.
He had always either money or provisions at hand, and was always ready to help one of his
companions--for a consideration. In times of distress, he bought up all the stock on hand,
and even sold on credit. In course of time, he had become rich, had a better house than the
rest, and could, if he liked, have retired from business. But he seemed chained to his trade,
and never gave any sign of abandoning his disgraceful occupation.

One day, however, he left Montreaux, and stayed away nearly a fortnight. When he came back, he
was not alone: he was accompanied by a young and lovely girl--one of those energetic but sweet
creatures, whose influence would be supreme with a good man. Madeleine Sandeau was eighteen--tall,
well-proportioned, and exceedingly handsome; she was, moreover, educated. Her father had taken her from
school, to bring her to his house, which, though so different from what she was used to, she
presided over at once with ease and nature. Great was the horror of the young girl when she
found out the character of the people around her.

She remonstrated freely with her father as to the dreadful nature
of his life; but the old man was cold and inexorable.

'He had brought her there to preside over his solitary house,' he said, 'and not to lecture him:'
and Madeleine was forced to be silent.

She saw at once the utter futility of any attempt to civilise or humanise the degraded beings she
associated with; and so she took to the children. With great difficulty, she formed a school,
and made it her daily labour to instil not only words, but ideas and principles, into the minds
of the young, unfledged wreckers.

She gained the goodwill of the elders, by nursing both young and
old during their hours of sickness, as well as by a slight knowledge
of medicine, which she had picked up in a way she never explained,
but which always made her silent and sad when she thought of it.

 It was
in 1499 that the accomplished but unscrupulous Amerigo Vespucci made his first voyage to Hispaniola,
following it up by voyages along the coast of South America. He returned thence to claim, after
the death of Columbus, the honors due to the great Genoese.

[Sidenote: Verrazzani.]

Portugal and France, jealous of the success of the Spanish and English expeditions, lost no
time in entering into this perilous and brilliant competition for maritime honor and western
possession. Portugal sent out Cortereal, and France Verrazzani. The former skirted the coast
for six hundred miles, kidnapping Indians, and spending some time at Labrador, where he came
to his death. Verrazzani, in 1524, sailed for the Western Continent in the Dolphin, ranged
along the coast of North Carolina, and so northward until he espied the beautiful harbor of
New York, and anchored for a brief rest in that of Newport. Verrazzani returned to France with
glowing accounts of the beauty, fertility, and noble harbors of the country.

[Sidenote: Jacques Cartier.]

Within ten years France sent forth another expedition, under the command of the famous Jacques
Cartier, which was destined to acquire for that nation its claim to the possession of Canada.
Cartier sailed from St. Malo to Newfoundland in twenty days. He went up the St. Lawrence, and
returned home to tell the thrilling tale of his adventures. The next year he came back to discover
the sites of Montreal and Quebec; and he made two more voyages, in 1540 and 1542.

[Sidenote: Ponce de Leon.]

Meanwhile, Spain was resolved to sustain the great prestige she had gained by the expeditions
of Columbus, and to yield to no rival her claims to dominion on the new continent. In 1512,
Don Juan Ponce de Leon, a brave soldier and adventurous man, who had accompanied Columbus on
his second voyage, landed on the peninsula of Florida, and established the right of Spain to
its possession. Five years after, Fernandez landed on the coast of Yucatan; and ere long Garay
explored the coast of the Gulf of Mexico.

[Sidenote: De Soto.]

It is not possible, in this survey, to follow, or even to name, the Spanish expeditions of
discovery and conquest between 1512 and 1550. Suffice it to say that during this period subjects
of the Spanish king landed on the coast of South Carolina, entered the harbors of New York
and New England, crossed Louisiana and northern Mexico to the Pacific, explored Mexico and
Peru, marched across Georgia under the lead of the renowned Ferdinand de Soto, penetrated to
the interior, and, after many romantic adventures and desperate hardships, discovered the magnificent
river which we call the Mississippi; made perilous excursions into the wild depths of Arkansas
and Missouri, and even to the remote banks of the Red River.

[Sidenote: Character of the Discoverers.]

The enterprises of Spaniards, English, Portuguese, and French were alike prompted by the greed
of gain. All sought the fabled El Dorado; all craved the power of colonial dominion. None the
less were the navigators and soldiers, whom the nations sent forth to reveal a new world to
civilization, men of courage and fortitude, able in achieving the momentous tasks assigned
to them. The system of poor-laws throughout the United Kingdom is, with the best intentions, a
cause of widely-spread demoralisation. These laws, in their operation, are, in fact, a scheme
for robbing the industrious to support the idle. But where is the legislator who will attack
and remodel this preposterous system?

The prevention of crime is another of our formidable social difficulties.

Every one sees how young and petty criminals grow up to be old and great ones. It is admitted that
the punishment of crime, after disorderly habits are confirmed, is no sufficient check; and that,
if the evil is to be cured, we must go at once to its root. But when or how is this to be
done? Again, there is a call for that scarcest of all things--statesmanship.

Spaniards, Frenchmen, and Englishmen fitted out vessels and crossed the ocean, to make more
extended researches, and to found, if possible, permanent settlements. Although failure generally
attended these attempts at colonization, they gradually led the way to the final occupation
of the continent.

[Sidenote: The Huguenots in America.]

Of these abortive efforts, that of Admiral Coligny to found a settlement of the Huguenots,
who were persecuted in France, on the new shores, was the earliest and one of the most romantic.
As long ago as 1562, America became a refuge of the oppressed for conscience's sake. The Huguenot
colony, taking up their residence on the River May, gave the name of "Carolina" (from King
Charles IX.) to their new domain. After many and terrible hardships, they returned again to
France, to be soon succeeded by another colony of Huguenots, also sent out by brave old Coligny,
which settled on the same soil of Carolina.

[Sidenote: Menendez in Florida]

This aroused the jealousy and cupidity of Spain. The "most Catholic" king was not only enraged
to find the soil which he claimed as his own by right of discovery, taken possession of by
the subjects of his French rival, but was scandalized that the new colonists should be Calvinistic
heretics. It was the very height of the gloomiest period of religious fanaticism and persecution
in Europe. Menendez was accordingly sent out to Florida by King Philip, and assumed its governorship;
and on September 8, 1565, Saint Augustine, the oldest town in the United States, was founded,
and Philip of Spain was solemnly proclaimed sovereign of all North America. Menendez lost no
time in attacking the Huguenot colonists of Carolina. They were speedily defeated, and most
of them were ruthlessly massacred; and our almost virgin soil was thus early the scene of another
St. Bartholomew.

Meanwhile, England was not idle in contesting with France and Spain the supremacy of the western
land. Very early in the sixteenth century projects of colonizing America were formed in England.

[Sidenote: English Colonization.]

Numerous voyages hither were undertaken during the reign of Henry VIII.; but the accounts which
remain of them are rare and meagre. Some of them resulted in terrible disasters of shipwreck
and death. Late in the century a courageous and determined navigator, Martin Frobisher, made
three voyages to America, but without establishing a colony, or finding the treasures of gold
and gems which he sought. Later, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, the half-brother of Raleigh, and Barlow,
made attempts to found colonies, but in vain.

[Sidenote: Raleigh's Expedition.]

It was in the spring of 1585 that Sir Walter Raleigh fitted out his famous expedition of seven
ships, and one hundred and eight emigrants, and sent it forth, bound for the shores of Carolina.
At first it seemed as it art English colony were really about to prosper in the new land. They
established themselves at Roanoke, and explored the country. Hariot, one of the shrewdest of
them, discovered the seductive proper- ties of tobacco, the succulence of Indian corn, and
the nutritive quality of potatoes.

[Sidenote: Sir Francis Drake.]

The hostility of the natives, however, soon became so bitter, and their attacks so frequent,
that the colony was glad to return to England in the visiting ships of Sir Francis Drake. Two
years later Raleigh, undismayed by the failure of his first colony, sent out another, under
John White, which settled on the Isle of Roanoke, and founded the "city of Raleigh." It was
here that, on the 18th of August, 1587, the first child of English parents was born on American
soil. Her name was Virginia Dare, and she was the granddaughter of Governor White. The Governor
returned to England, leaving the emigrants behind; and on his going back to Roanoke, three
years afterwards, no vestige of the colony could be discovered. It is supposed that they were
all massacred by the Indians during White's absence. The first permanent settlement in America,
was made by the French, at Port Royal, in 1605.

[Sidenote: Port Royal.]

[Sidenote: Colonies in Virginia.]

English enterprise was now at last ready to found and perpetuate states on the new continent.
In little more than a year after the French occupation of Port Royal, a patent was granted
by King James the First to a party of colonists, under Newport and Smith, authorizing them
to form a government in Virginia, subject to the English crown. Imagine, then, three small
ships setting forth, on the bleak 19th of December, 1606, and directing their way to Virginia,
with one hundred and five men on board, and freighted with a goodly store of arms and provisions.
Most of the party were gallant and courtly cavaliers: there were but twelve laborers and four
carpenters in all the company. After a stormy voyage they passed up the James River, and landing,
on its shores, they founded Jamestown.

[Sidenote: Heinrich Hudson.]

The news of the colonization of Virginia, the success of the adventurous emigrants in maintaining
their settlement, and the fertility, beauty, and salubriousness of the continent, soon inspired
other enterprises of a similar kind. The Dutch have always been famous navigators; and it was
in 1609 that gallant Heinrich Hudson, alter two previous futile attempts to find a western
passage to India, reached these shores, and sailed up the noble river which now bears his name. It
has lately been raised to the dignity of a city by a charter of incorporation, which, in the
state of Massachusetts, can be claimed by any town when the number of its inhabitants amounts
to 10,000: thus it appoints its officers, and manages its own affairs,
as a body corporate and municipal.

The most striking feature of the social system here, is the condition
of the mill-workers, of which, as it is so different from ours, I
shall give you some particulars. The story of the
Pilgrims and Puritans is almost too familiar to be rehearsed. Every schoolboy knows of their
adventures and trials, their hardships and their dauntless energy, their piety and rigidity
of rule, the great qualities by the exercise of which it may be justly claimed that they made
themselves the true founders of the American Republic. Driven by persecution from their native
England, they took refuge in Holland; and from thence they sailed in two small vessels, the
Speedwell and the Mayflower on a July day in 1620, for the new world. One hundred Puritans
thus crossed the ocean.

[Sidenote: Settlement at Plymouth.]

After a tempestuous voyage of sixty-three days, the Mayflower coasted along Cape Cod, and landed,
on the twenty-first day of December, at Plymouth. The Speedwell had been forced to put back
in a disabled condition. Before landing, the Puritans made a solemn compact of government,
purely republican in form, and to this they afterwards religiously adhered. In 1629 another
English Puritan colony, called the "Massachusetts Bay Colony," settled at Salem; and in the
following year came Governor John Winthrop, with eight hundred emigrants. The Massachusetts
Bay Colony, thus re-enforced, and now numbering not far from one thousand souls, settled Boston
and its neighborhood.

[Sidenote: New England Colonized.]

New Hampshire began to be settled three years after the landing of the Pilgrims at Plymouth.
Maine was colonized not much later. Vermont, having been explored by Champlain in 1609, was
settled some years after. The Rhode Island colony was founded by Roger Williams and five companions,
driven from the Boston and Plymouth colonies in succession, in 1636; and Connecticut first
became the seat of a settlement in 1635, the colonial constitution being adopted in 1630. Next
in point of time, Delaware was settled by parties of Swedes and Finlanders in 1638, and was
called "New Sweden." The province passed into the hands of the Dutch of New Amsterdam, however,
in 1655.

[Sidenote: European possessions in America.]

Thus, in a period of a little less than half a century, the whole of the American coast had
been acquired by, and was to a large degree under the dominion of, five European nations. 'Never!'
shrieked Madeleine, clinging franticly to her father's clothes.

'Let me go!' cried Pierre, dragging her with him.

At that moment a terrible event interrupted their struggle. A man stood upright in the foremost boat,
guiding their progress. Just as they were within two yards of the shore, this man saw the wreckers
coming down in a body.

'As I expected!' he cried in a loud ringing
voice. 'Fire!--shoot every one of the villains!'

A volley of small
arms, within pistol-shot of the body of wreckers, was the unexpected
greeting which these men received. A loud and terrible yell shewed
the way in which the discharge had told. One-half of the pillagers
fell on the stony beach, the other half fled.

Among those who remained
was Madeleine.

[Sidenote: William Penn.]

