After duly making his plans, Herkimer invited Brant to meet him at Unadilla, on the Susquehanna,
higher up than Oquaga. He arrived at this place in the month of July with three hundred and
eighty militiamen, but had to wait a week before Brant put in an appearance. The fact that
he came with such a numerous escort was well fitted to cause suspicion. Captain Brant also
came with a large contingent of warriors, pitched his camp at some little distance from the
Americans, and sent a runner to ask the general why he had been honoured with this visit. Herkimer
replied that he merely wished to have a talk with his brother Brant and that would be all.
The runner said he would bear the message back, but first asked slyly whether all these men
were anxious to talk with the War Chief also. Before departing, Brant's messenger signified
that the colonials must not trespass upon the field that stretched away towards the Indians'
camp. About half-way between the two parties a shed was now put up, large enough to seat two
hundred people. It was agreed that each side should send a deputation to this hall, where a
meeting would be held. On no account, however, were any firearms or other weapons to be brought
from the camps.

Upon the day appointed Herkimer was the first to reach the spot, while Brant arrived a little
later. The Indian chief had scented danger and was strictly on his guard. With him were two
pale-faces, a Mohawk chief, about two score warriors, and an Indian woman. It was the custom
in such a parley to draw a circle on the ground and for the leaders to stand or sit within
this. Herkimer and two officers entered the circle, while Brant was accompanied by the inferior
chieftain. Brant was all the time watching the general like a hawk and again asked him what
was the meaning of his visit. Herkimer repeated that it was only for the sake of good fellowship.

'And all these have come on a friendly visit too?' asked Captain Brant. 'All want to see the
poor Indians; it is very kind.' Unaffected by Brant's irony, Herkimer next referred to the
troubles between England and the colonies, and tried to draw out Brant. The chief was slow
and taciturn in answering, but at last burst forth in no uncertain language. I choose one. He tells
me what the symptoms are, drinks my invalid port, creeps downstairs and breaks the news to
the hushed and awe-stricken family. A chap like that makes suffering a pleasure and is a great
comfort in a home like mine, where a sick bed is the only sort you are allowed to lie in after
10 A.M. Without the fellow's ready sympathy I doubt if I should secure
any sleep at all.

One gets no assistance of that kind from dentists, although they give you more pain in ten
seconds than a doctor does in ten years.

In the interval Herkimer is said to have devised one of the vilest schemes that has ever been
charged against a man of his rank. He selected a settler, named Joseph Waggoner, and three
other trusty men as his accomplices. These persons were to assist him in a conspiracy against
Brant's life that was simply an attempt at murder. The details of the plot were furnished in
a confession made afterwards by Waggoner. As the parties stood in the circle, the four accomplices
were to take a cue from Herkimer and shoot the Indians down without warning. But Herkimer was
reckoning without his host. Joseph Brant was far too shrewd to walk headlong into such an open
snare. It is plain that he had come to suspect the intentions of his adversary. Next morning,
as he stepped into the circle, he assumed a grave and dignified mien. Addressing Herkimer,
he spoke in stern accents:

'I have five hundred warriors with me, armed and ready for battle. You are in my power; but
as we have been friends and neighbours, I will not take advantage of you.'

As he ended, a great band of redskins advanced from the engirdling forest, and the war-whoop
rent the air. Backed by his faithful warriors, the War Chief could speak in tones of authority
to his foe. He did not forget to thank him for his coming, but bade him direct his steps once
again towards his home on the Mohawk. Thereupon Brant turned about and strode away among the
trees. Just then thick clouds blotted out the sky; a terrible storm swept in violence across
the land, a fitting presage, as men thought, of the scourge of war that must now bring ruin
and havoc in its wake.

CHAPTER VII

FORT STANWIX AND ORISKANY

Fresh from undoing Herkimer's ugly plot, Brant abandoned the Susquehanna and went off in the
direction of Lake Ontario. A great Indian council was to be held at Oswego, and possibly he
was hurrying to this meeting.

A vigorous campaign had been set on foot for the midsummer of 1777 by General Burgoyne, who
was now in command of the British forces at Montreal. It was arranged that Burgoyne should
strike southward with the main army until he reached the Hudson river. Meanwhile another body
of troops, under Lieutenant-Colonel St Leger, would make a long detour by way of Lake Ontario
and the western part of the colony of New York. The object of this latter movement was to rally
the Indians, collect a force of loyalists, and fight through the heart of the country with
the hope of forming a junction with Burgoyne's army at Albany.

St Leger reached Oswego about the middle of July. There he was joined by a regiment of loyalists,
the famous Royal Greens, and a company of Tory Rangers under Colonel John Butler. Brant was
present with two hundred Mohawks, while a large band of Senecas were also grouped under the
king's standard. In all there were seventeen hundred men, fully one thousand of whom were Indians
under the supreme command of Captain Brant.

On starting out, St Leger, who knew that a surprise might be attempted, outlined his order
of march with great care. A detachment from one of the battalions was sent on ahead, and this
was later joined by Captain Brant with a party of his warriors. Five columns of Indians went
in front, in single file; the flanks also were protected by Indians at a distance of one hundred
paces from the central column.

It was intended that the first blow should be struck at Fort Stanwix, on the head-waters of
the Mohawk. This was an old English stronghold that had fallen into decay, but was being repaired
and defended in the interest of the revolting colonies by Colonel Peter Gansevoort. It lay
on the traffic-road to Oneida Lake, and was considered a strong point of vantage. Its garrison
was made up of about seven hundred and fifty colonials. They had provisions enough to last
for six weeks and a goodly supply of ammunition, and hoped to be able to withstand attack until
help should arrive.

The English leader reached this fort on August 3, and immediately began to invest it. A demand
was sent in under a flag of truce calling upon the garrison to surrender. St Leger said it
was his desire 'to spare when possible' and only 'to strike where necessary.' He was willing
to buy their stock of provisions and grant security to all within the fort. The offer was generous,
but the garrison rejected it with a good-tempered disdain and the siege went on with renewed
earnestness. The Indians, hiding in the thickets, poured their fire upon those who were working
on the walls. The presence of the savages lent a weird fury to the scene, made it, indeed,
well-nigh uncanny. One evening in particular they 'spread themselves through the woods, completely
encircling the Fort, and commenced a terrible yelling, which was continued at intervals the
greater part of the night.' Fort Stanwix was soon in dire straits. The news of the investment
had sent a thrill through the whole of the Mohawk valley. The colonials came together in haste,
and soon about a thousand of them, led by Nicholas Herkimer, were ascending the river in straggling
array. They hurried on their course with such zeal that they did not even send out scouting
parties to warn them of danger and prevent surprise. On August 5 this relief force was close
to Oriskany, and only eight miles distant from St Leger's position. Herkimer now matured a
clever plan, the success of which he confidently expected would bring him victory. He chose
three men and sent them forward to gain entrance to the fort and to tell Gansevoort that help
was coming. The moment they arrived the besieged were to fire three guns in rapid succession.
This was to be Herkimer's signal; he would speed at once along the road to the British position
and fling himself on its rear, while, at the same time, Gansevoort must issue forth and attack
it in front. St Leger's army, it was hoped, would crumble in hopeless defeat between two shattering
fires.

As fortune would have it, this ruse was doomed to complete failure. The messengers set out
at eleven o'clock at night, and Herkimer thought they would surely reach the fort by three
in the morning. But he waited in vain the whole night through; no sound of cannonade disturbed
the quiet air. As the hours crept by his officers became fretful and impatient; in the end
they declared for an immediate advance, denouncing Herkimer as a faltering coward. At length
the old man, sorely against his will, gave the order to march. The relief party streamed through
the forest with disordered ranks. In the meantime Brant's Indians had not been idle. They had
carefully watched the manoeuvres of the hostile force, and had given timely warning. St Leger
at once took steps to bar the road to attack. For this purpose a division of the Royal Greens
was detailed, as well as the Tory Rangers, with Butler in command. The bulk of the contingent,
however, were Indians, and it fell to the lot of Joseph Brant to fasten Herkimer in the strong
meshes of his net.

The ground over which the Americans had to pass was uneven, and this had not escaped the watchful
eye of Brant. He was an adept in the tactics of Indian warfare, and now used his knowledge
to good effect. Herkimer had not gone far along the narrow trail before he found himself in
difficulties. The road slanted down into a boggy hollow some six or seven miles below Fort
Stanwix. This hollow had a winding course in the form of a crescent, and across its march a
causeway of heavy logs had been built. Between the ends of the encircling ravine there was
an elevated position, thickly wooded and dry. Upon this Brant had laid his ambush, having posted
his men with only a slight opening in their ranks towards the incline of the road.

Down into the gully came the colonials, their wagons and a small guard bringing up the rear.
As they toiled up the opposing ascent, the gap was closed upon them, and they were surrounded
on every side. The rear-guard were left behind with the wagons and fled in a tumult, with a
throng of Indians in close pursuit. From the sheltering trees a deadly fusillade swept the
hapless files of those who were hemmed about on the rising ground. Darting from their cover,
the Indians sprang upon such as lay wounded and dispatched them with knife and tomahawk.

The first onslaught had resulted in a carnival of blood. Now the colonials, owing to their
numbers, were able to get together and to place themselves on the defensive. The fight soon
became hand to hand and there ensued one of the most gruesome melees of the whole War of the
Revolution. The men were able to look into one another's faces; they fought at quarters too
close for bullets, and relied upon gun-stock, knife-blade, and bayonet. There was slashing
and cutting, clubbing and throttling, and often in their frenzy they grappled tight and died
in one another's fast embrace. In the midst of it all Herkimer proved himself no craven. With
his leg ripped by a bullet he propped himself against a tree, lit his pipe, and directed the
order of the battle. Above the din rang out clear the wild cries of the red men, their painted
bodies flashing bright among the trees. In the forefront was Brant, fighting vehemently, his
towering form set firmly, his deep voice echoing loud.

While the battle was at its height, rolling clouds had gathered and a drenching storm checked
the combatants in their work of slaughter. The colonials were still fighting desperately, but
for them the day was lost. After the few moments' interval they re-formed their scattered ranks
and resolutely faced the foe. No sooner, however, had the struggle again commenced than the
noise of cannon came reverberating upon the moist air. The appointed messengers had arrived
at Fort Stanwix, many hours late, and the signal had been given. Deceived by the cannonading
and fearing that St Leger might be in distress, the loyalists rapidly drew off with their Indian
allies, leaving their opponents on the crimson field. But so exhausted were the colonials by
the fierce fighting they had experienced that they could not follow after the retreating army
and were forced to move dejectedly down the Mohawk valley. Four hundred of their men had fallen
in the battle, dead or wounded, nearly half the number that had entered the swampy ravine.
On a litter of green boughs General Herkimer was carried to his stone house on the river, where,
a few weeks after the cruel fight, he died with the same fortitude that he had shown when under
fire.

The laurels for this victory at Oriskany rested with Captain Brant. He had commanded the greater
part of the loyalist forces and his plan had placed the enemy at their mercy. Thanks to this
success, the colonials had received a stunning blow, and Colonel St Leger's army was possibly
saved from an utter rout. But the Indians had paid a heavy price for their victory; many of
their chiefs and warriors lay dead upon the field.

The siege of Fort Stanwix was kept up until August 22. By this time St Leger had reached a
point one hundred and fifty yards from its outer wall. During the interval the word of Herkimer's
defeat had brought General Arnold with a strong body of militiamen to the rescue. While still
some distance away this commander thought that he might create a false alarm in the English
camp. A half-witted fellow, who went by the name of Hon-Yost Schuyler, had been captured and
was in Arnold's camp. He was freed on condition that he should go to the English camp and give
an exaggerated account of the new force which was coming to the relief of Fort Stanwix. When
he reached the camp Schuyler went first among the Indians, showing a coat riddled with bullets,
and told of the host that was on its way. When asked how many there were, he pointed to the
fluttering leaves above his head. The redskins always had a superstitious awe of this stupid
fellow and now they were terror-stricken by his words and antics. Panic seized the besiegers.
Perhaps Brant tried to quell the disorder, but, if he did, his efforts were in vain. St Leger
himself seemed to share in the panic, for he beat a hasty retreat, following the road leading
to Oswego. But the War Chief of the Six Nations--it is pleasant to relate--did not retreat
with him. While St Leger journeyed to the north, Brant had called together a band of his willing
followers. Then he took one of those flying marches which made him famous in border warfare.
Crossing the territory of the enemy with great skill and daring, he hurried eastward, and in
a short time he was in the camp of General Burgoyne on the banks of the Hudson.

CHAPTER VIII

FIGHTING ON THE FRONTIER

Brant was now regularly in the pay of the British, and until the close of the war he was to
be employed actively in weakening the colonists by destroying their settlements intervening
between the populous centres of the Atlantic states and the borders of Canada. In this unhappy
fratricidal war each side used the Indians to strike terror into the hearts of its enemies,
and as a result, in the quiet valleys lying between the Hudson and Ohio and the Great Lakes,
there was an appalling destruction of property and loss of life. Brant proved himself one of
the most successful of the leaders in this border warfare, and while he does not seem ever
to have been guilty of wanton cruelty himself, those under him, on more than one occasion,
ruthlessly murdered their foes, irrespective of age or sex. That he tacitly permitted his followers
to murder and scalp unarmed settlers shows that he was still much of a savage. As one historian
has written: 'He was not a devil, and not an angel.' It is true, as we shall see, that on several
occasions he intervened to save Tory friends and acquaintances, but these are isolated examples,
and his raids were accompanied by all the horrors of Indian warfare. The only excuse that can
be offered for him is that he was no worse than his age, and that the white loyalist leaders,
such as the Butlers, as well as the colonial commanders of the revolutionists, were equally
callous regarding the destruction of property and life.

Brant appears to have spent the winter of 1777 and 1778 in Canada, but with the opening of
military operations in the spring he was again at Oquaga and Unadilla. One of his first exploits
of the year 1778 was at Springfield, a small settlement lying some miles beyond Cherry Valley
at the head of Lake Otsego. When news of Brant's approach reached this place, a number of the
men-folk fled for their lives. Those who remained were taken prisoners. The chief gathered
the women and children into one house and set the torch to all the other buildings in the settlement.
Brant's care for the weaker sex and the children during this expedition shows that he had a
tenderness of heart unusual among the red men of his time. 

Would his Excellency the Commander come up to the bridge and save them, please?

It was a painful predicament, and Reginald was justly horrified. Could he venture out and display
the weakness of the British Navy in the face of a crew of unwashed Greek matelots? On the other
hand, could he skulk in his cabin and allow the Master to doubt his courage and resource? He
rose and lurched unsteadily on deck.

The Captain was distinctly excited. Destruction was imminent. He had
appealed to the Saints without avail. Would the British Commander
come to their assistance? What did his Excellency think of it?

Reginald
thought it was perfectly horrible. He had never thought such a ghastly
scene possible. The ship appeared on the point of turning turtle and
he was soaked to the skin already.

'I know your father well,' said the redskin, when the boy had answered his questions; 'he lives
neighbour to Captain McKean. I know McKean very well, and a fine fellow he is too.'

The boy was now quite reassured that the Indian would do him no harm, and boldly inquired who
his interrogator might be.

'My name is Brant,' answered the redskin, although he pondered for a moment before replying.

'What! Joseph Brant?' said the youth, as a sharp thrill went coursing through his veins.

'No!' answered the warrior, 'I am a cousin of his'; but a smile lit up his dark countenance,
and the boy knew that his denial was just a bit of native humour. Thereupon Brant disappeared
in the direction of Foster's house. The boy at once rushed from the field to the fortified
post near by to tell his story, and a hue and cry was soon raised. A party hurried to the loyalist's
house to seek Brant, but he was not there. Foster said that he had never come and that he knew
nothing of him. So, checkmated in their search, the group of would-be captors had to wheel
about and go back disappointed to their fortress.

Brant was fast gaining an unsavoury reputation which he but partly merited. Owing to the character
of the country in which he was fighting, and to the lack of discipline in the force under his
command, destruction of property and plunder were certain to occur. Brant, as we shall see,
did little to discourage this among his warriors. His argument was that his antagonists had
taken up arms against their lawful king. As rebels, their lands and property were forfeited
to the crown and were justly liable to seizure by the king's forces. To the settlers on the
border, however, Brant was looked upon as a ruthless marauder, thirsting for blood. Whenever
acts of wanton cruelty took place, the blame was generally laid at his door. This explains
the bitterness of their attitude to him both during and after the conflict and the singular
fear which his name inspired among them.

At Unadilla Brant had begun to fortify an area which lent itself to defence, and thither the
tribesmen flocked from the surrounding districts. So determined were the settlers to capture
him that they offered a reward to any one who would bring them any knowledge of his movements.
Even men like Captain McKean, whom Brant had mentioned so kindly to the farmer's boy, were
hot upon his trail. This officer set out with five other men in order, if possible, to effect
Brant's capture. While on their quest the little party came one night to the house of a Quaker.
To their great delight, the Quaker told them that Brant had been at his place during the day
and would come back. He warned them, however, that Brant was prepared to meet them, and that
if he returned suddenly their lives would be in danger. McKean, however, was stubborn in his
resolve to stay.

'Your house, friend Sleeper,' he said, with a show of bravado, 'shall be my fort to-night.'

But the Quaker would have none of them, and sent the searchers on their way. Then Captain McKean
wrote a letter to Brant. Placing this in a stick, he cast it on an Indian path, where it was
soon found by a redskin and carried to the War Chief's wigwam. In the letter McKean arraigned
Brant for the ferocious manner in which he was fighting, and dared the Mohawk chief to single
combat, or to send a chosen body of men to meet him in fair field against an equal number.
If he showed his face in Cherry Valley, threatened McKean, 'they would change him from a Brant
into a Goose.'

Brant knew the impulsive nature of McKean and took this amusing letter for what it was worth.
Yet the letter was not without its effect upon him. They had dared him; they had taunted him
with threats; he would show them that Joseph Brant would have a day of reckoning and that right
early. 'Cherry Valley people,' he wrote in the postscript of a short note sent to an ardent
loyalist, '[are] very bold, and intended to make nothing of us; they call us wild geese, but
I know the contrary.'

Early in July a bloody engagement had occurred in the valley of Wyoming, an extensive region
in Pennsylvania on the north branch of the Susquehanna river. For many years after the encounter
it was commonly believed that Brant was the leader of the Indians who took part in it. The
valley of Wyoming had once been a possession of the tribes of the Six Nations but, in 1754,
they had been ousted from their inheritance by a colonizing company. When the Revolutionary
War began it was already well peopled with settlers. Naturally eager for vengeance, the dispossessed
Indians invited the co-operation of Colonel John Butler and his rangers in a raid. Butler accepted
the invitation, and the Indians and rangers to the number of five hundred made a swift descent
of the Susquehanna and invaded the valley. I did not bandy words. There was no escaping the fact
that they were, as Suzanne reminded me, my sole surviving pair of khaki slacks, and that I
should certainly have to get a new pair before returning to the Depôt; for these were obviously
beyond wear or repair. Older American historians misrepresented the fight as a cruel massacre of non-combatants
and asserted that Brant was present. British writers, following them, fell into the same error.
Thomas Campbell's poem, 'Gertrude of Wyoming,' written in 1809, gives a gruesome picture of
the episode, telling of the work which was done by the 'monster Brant.' During his visit to
England in 1823, the War Chief's youngest son, John Brant, vindicated his father in a letter
to Campbell, and showed that the reference to his father in this poem was based on false information.
He declared that 'living witnesses' had convinced him that his father was not in the neighbourhood
of Wyoming at the time of the so-called massacre; testimony has been forthcoming to support
the claims which John Brant then made. It has been shown that the tribesmen of the Six Nations
whom Butler had with him were Senecas, while the rest were Indians from the western tribes,
and that Brant's tribe, the Mohawks, were not present. Nevertheless the Wyoming slaughter differs
only in degree from other scenes of bloodshed and plunder in which Brant took part. In the
month, indeed, in which the vale of Wyoming was being bathed in blood, he swept down on the
little hamlet of Andrustown, and, bearing away a few captives and much booty, disappeared with
his followers in the surrounding forest.

It was now nearing the time of harvest, and in the Mohawk valley the grain had ripened to a
golden brown. Even amid the din of war men must live, and so the settlers began to garner the
season's crop. Nowhere on the river were there fuller barns than in the populous district that
went by the name of the German Flatts. Bordering the Mohawk river on either side, it stretched
for ten miles along the valley, rich in soil, and with broad green pastures and plenteous herds.
The settlers knew that the enemy was not far off, and they grew more afraid of attack with
each passing day. They had two strongholds to which they could flee in case of trouble, Fort
Herkimer on one bank of the river, Fort Dayton on the other; but these would be of little use
to the settlers if they had not sufficient warning of the approach of the enemy. Mindful of
this, they sent four of their number to act as scouts and to warn the settlement of any danger.
While on this mission three of the party met with death at the hands of their adversaries,
but the fourth escaped and hastened back to the German Flatts. One evening, just before sunset,
he arrived with the fearful tidings that Brant was moving up the river with a large band of
Indians and would soon be upon them. The alarm was spread through the valley, and men, women,
and children gathered up what articles of value they could take with them in their hurried
flight, and rushed pell-mell to the forts. During the evening some carried off a portion of
their household effects in small boats. In the meantime Caldwell, commanding a party of rangers,
with Indians under Brant, had come to the outskirts of the settlement. Then, even before the
first gleam of daylight had begun to slant across the valley, the Indians were flitting like
ghostly spectres in and out among the buildings. Almost at the same moment flames arose in
every direction, flashing and darting against the morning sky. Powerless to stay the destruction,
the settlers, huddled behind their defences, witnessed a melancholy sight. Houses and barns,
everything that could be given to the fire, were soon a heap of smoking embers.

