A man came along with an axe on his shoulder, and Mr. Stewart asked him about the road. "Yes,"
he said, "you are off the main road, but on a better. You'll cross the same stream you were
going to camp on, right at my ranch. It is just a little way across here and it's almost sundown,
so I will show you the way."

He strode along ahead. We drove through an avenue of great dark pines and across a log bridge
that spanned a noisy, brawling stream. The man opened a set of bars and we drove into a big
clean corral. Comfortable sheds and stables lined one side, and big stacks of hay were conveniently
placed. He began to help unharness the teams, saying that they might just as well run in his
meadow, as he was through haying; then the horses would be safe while we fished. He insisted
on our stopping in his cabin, which we found to be a comfortable two-room affair with a veranda
the whole length. The biggest pines overshadowed the house; just behind it was a garden, in
which some late vegetables were still growing. The air was rather frosty and some worried hens
were trying hard to cover some chirping half-feathered chicks.

It was such a homey place that we felt welcome and perfectly comfortable at once. The inside
of the house will not be hard to describe. It was clean as could be, but with a typical bachelor's
cleanliness: there was no dirt, but a great deal of disorder. Across the head of the iron bed
was hung a miscellany of socks, neckties, and suspenders. I thanked him, and left depressed. I
wandered through the town, and found myself back on the Esplanade. I walked the whole length
of it, and then along the sea bank into the uninhabited region beyond.

Not quite uninhabited, as it proved, for, about half a mile from the Esplanade, I came suddenly
on a cottage with nothing between it and the sandy beach but a tiny garden plot, with a bit of grass
and some nasturtiums and pinks mixed up with cabbages and potatoes and a row of scarlet-runners.
It looked very clean and inviting, and I said to myself, "Now, if only that were to let, it's
just exactly what I want."

There could be no harm in asking, so I went up to the door and knocked. No one came. I knocked
again. Still no answer. I waited. It seemed to me there was some movement in the side room, the sliding
window of which was partly open, but was covered with a white curtain.

I knocked again, and the door opened suddenly, and disclosed the small brown face of a small lame
man, looking up at me with a pair of small but very sharp brown eyes, with, as I now remember, a slightly
startled look in them, as of one caught in the act.

"Yes?" he said, in a sharp voice.

"Oh, I wanted to ask if this cottage is by any chance to let any time
in August."

He hesitated, and then snapped, "How long for?"

"Two, three, or four weeks."

"When d'you want it?"

"About the seventh or eighth."

He pondered the matter, and barked, "Come in."

I went in. It was charming.

Nicely, though plainly, furnished, and as clean as a new pin.

I went all over it. Two sitting, four bedrooms, kitchen, scullery, wire spring mattresses, wool
beds, two blankets to each bed, blankets very white and almost new.

"And the rent?" I asked, wondering how much above my limit I would not go to possess all this for
a month.

"Well," he said, slowly, "three guineas a week is what we generally get, but if you could wait
till the twelfth I'd let it go for two and a half, if you'll buy the stuff in the garden. I
reckon there's a good pound's worth between the potatoes and cabbages and beans, and they'll be
just about ready by the time you come in. I've made a good let for
the three weeks before you come, and they don't want to go out till
the eleventh, and" (dropping his voice to a confidential whisper)
"my missus, she's expecting to be laid up very soon, and she wants
to go to her folks at Wilborough, else I wouldn't let it go so cheap."

Diplomatically
veiling my satisfaction, I closed the bargain on the spot, and sat
down then and there and wrote out a couple of agreements, by which
Joseph Scorer agreed to let, and John Oxenham agreed to take, for
one month, from August 12th, the cottage known as Sandybank Cottage
in the town of Eastnor, with the furniture, etc., named in the inventory
attached, for the sum of ten guineas, whereof the receipt of one pound
was hereby acknowledged.

"What about the inventory?" I asked.

"I've
got one ready for the other folks. If you like to check it I'll make
you a copy and send it on."

It was a strange and wonderful document,
that inventory, but with Mr. Scorer's assistance I succeeded in checking
the main points of it. Many of the items were strange; the spelling
was phonetic and curious, and at times stumped us both, and then Mr.
Scorer would scratch his head and opine that it must mean so-and-so.

"One
cundler" in the kitchen brought us to a dead-lock for full five minutes.
At last Mr. Scorer pointed to a battered implement with its bottom
full of holes, hanging on the wall, and said, triumphantly, "That's
it."

"What in heaven's name is it?" I asked, gazing suspiciously
at the shapeless object.

"Why, you squeedge your cabbages through
it," he said.

"Oh, I see, a colander." Mrs.
O'Shaughnessy selected what she said we would begin on, and dampened it so as to shrink it
by morning. We then spread our beds and made ready for an early start next day.

Next morning we ate breakfast by the light of the lamp that smoked for the sake of companionship,
and then started to cut out our work. Daniel and Mr. Stewart went fishing, and we packed their
lunch so as to have them out of the way all day. I undertook the making of the bonnet, because
I knew how, and because I can remember the kind my mother wore; I reckoned Daniel's mother
would have worn about the same style. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and Elizabeth can both cross-stitch,
so they went out to Daniel's granary and ripped up some grain-bags, in order to get the thread
with which they were sewed, to work one apron in cross-stitch.

But when we were ready to sew we were dismayed, for there was no machine. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy,
however, was of the opinion that some one in the country must have a sewing machine, so she
saddled a horse and went out, she said, to "beat the brush."

She was hardly out of sight before a man rode up and said there had been a telephone message
saying that Mrs. Holt had arrived in Rock Springs, and was on her way as far as Newfork in
an automobile. That threw Elizabeth and myself into a panic. We posted the messenger off on
a hunt for Daniel. Elizabeth soon got over her flurry and went at her cross-stitching. I hardly
knew what to do, but acting from force of habit, I reckon, I began cleaning. A powerfully good
way to reason out things sometimes is to work; and just then I had to work. I began on the
storeroom, which was well lighted and which was also used as a pantry. As soon as I began straightening
up I began to wonder where the mother would sleep. By arranging things in the storeroom a little
differently, I was able to make room for a bed and a trunk. I decided on putting Daniel there;
so then I began work in earnest. Elizabeth laid down her work and helped me. We tacked white
cheesecloth over the wall, and although the floor was clean, we scrubbed it to freshen it.
We polished the window until it sparkled. We were right in the middle of our work when Mrs.
O'Shaughnessy came, and Daniel with her.

They were all excitement, but Mrs. O'Shaughnessy is a real general and soon marshaled her forces.
Daniel had to go to Newfork after his mother; that would take three days. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy
pointed out to him the need of a few pieces of furniture; so he took a wagon and team, which
he got a neighbor to drive, while he took another team and a buggy for his mother. Newfork
is a day's drive beyond Pinedale, and the necessary furniture could be had in Pinedale; so
the neighbor went along and brought back a new bed, a rocker, and some rugs. But of course
he had to stay overnight. I was for keeping right on house-cleaning; but as Mrs. O'Shaughnessy
had arranged for us all to come and sew that afternoon at a near-by house, we took our sewing
and clambered into the buckboard and set out.

We found Mrs. Bonham a pleasant little woman whose husband had earned her pretty new machine
by chewing tobacco. I reckon you think that is a mighty funny method of earning anything, but
some tobacco has tags which are redeemable, and the machine was one of the premiums. Mrs. Bonham
just beamed with pride as she rolled out her machine. "I never had a machine before," she explained.
"I just went to the neighbors' when I had to sew. So of course I wanted a machine awfully bad.
So Frank jest chawed and chawed, and I saved every tag till we got enough, and last year we
got the machine. Frank is chawin' out a clock now; but that won't take him so long as the machine
did."

Well, the "chawed-out" machine did splendidly, and we turned out some good work that afternoon.
I completed the blue bonnet which was to be used as "best," and made a "splint" bonnet. Mrs.
O'Shaughnessy and Elizabeth did well on their aprons. We took turns about at the machine and
not a minute was wasted. Mrs. Bonham showed us some crochet lace which she said she hoped to
sell; and right at once Mrs. O'Shaughnessy's fertile mind begin to hatch plans. She would make
Mrs. Holt a "Sunday apron," she said, and she bought the lace to trim it with. I thought Mrs.
Holt must be an old-fashioned lady who liked pillow-shams. Mrs. Bonham had a pretty pair she
was willing to sell. On one was worked, "Good Morning"; on the other, "Good Night"; it was
done with red cotton. The shams had a dainty edge of homemade lace. Elizabeth would not be
outdone; she purchased a star quilt pieced in red and white. At sundown we went home. We were
all tired, but as soon as supper was over we went to work again. We took down the bed and set
it up in Dan's new quarters, and we made such headway on what had been his bedroom that we
knew we could finish in a little while next day.

The next morning, as soon as we had breakfasted, Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and Elizabeth went back
to sew, taking with them a lot of white cheesecloth for lining for the bedroom we were preparing
for Mrs. Holt. Mr. Stewart had had fine luck fishing, but he said he felt plumb left out with
so much bustling about and he not helping. He is very handy with a saw and hammer, and he contrived
what we called a "chist of drawers," for Daniel's room. The "chist" had only one drawer; into
that we put all the gloves, ties, handkerchiefs, and suspenders, and on the shelves below we
put his shoes and boots. Then I made a blue curtain for the "chist" and one for the window,
and the room looked plumb nice, I can tell you. I liked the "chist" so well that I asked Mr.
Stewart to make something of the kind for Mrs. Holt's room. He said there wouldn't be time,
but he went to work on it.

Promptly at noon Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and Elizabeth came with the lining for the room. We worked
like beavers, and had the room sweet and ready by mid-afternoon, when the man came from Pinedale
with the new furniture. In just a little while we had the room in perfect order: the bed nicely
made with soft, new blankets for sheets; the pretty star quilt on, and the nice, clean pillows
protected by the shams. They could buy no rugs, but a weaver of rag carpets in Pinedale had
some pieces of carpet which Daniel sent back to us. They were really better and greatly more
in keeping. We were very proud of the pretty white and red room when we were through. Only
the kitchen was left, but we decided we could clean that early next day; so we sat down to
sew and to plan the next day's dinner. We could hear Mr. Stewart out in the barn hammering
and sawing on the "chist."

While we were debating whether to have fried chicken or trout for dinner, two little girls,
both on one horse, rode up. They entered shyly, and after carefully explaining to us that they
had heard that a wagon-load of women were buying everything they could see, had run Mr. Holt
off, and were living in his house, they told us they had come to sell us some blueing. When
they got two dollars' worth sold, the blueing company would send them a big doll; so, please,
would we buy a lot?

We didn't think we could use any blueing, but we hated to disappoint the little things. We
talked along, and presently they told us of their mother's flowers. Daniel had told us his
mother always had a red flower in her kitchen window. When the little girls assured us their
mother had a red geranium in bloom, Mrs. O'Shaughnessy set out to get it; and about dark she
returned with a beautiful plant just beginning to bloom. We were all as happy as children;
we had all worked very hard, too. Mr. Stewart said we deserved no sympathy because we cleaned
a perfectly clean house; but, anyway, we felt much better for having gone over it.

The "chist" was finished early next morning. It would have looked better, perhaps, if it had
had a little paint, but as we had no paint and were short of time, we persuaded ourselves it
looked beautiful with only its clean, pretty curtain. We didn't make many changes in the kitchen.
All we did was to take down the mirror and turn it lengthways above the mantel-shelf over the
fireplace. We put the new rocker in the bright, sunny corner, where it would be easier for
dim old eyes to see to read or sew. We set the geranium on the broad clean sill of the window,
and I think you would have agreed with us that it was a cozy, cheerful home to come to after
fifteen years of lonely homelessness. We couldn't get the dinner question settled, so we "dished
in dirty-face"; each cooked what she thought best. Like Samantha Ann Allen, we had "everything
good and plenty of it."

Elizabeth took a real interest and worked well. She is the dearest girl and would be a precious
daughter to some mother. She has not yet told us anything about herself. All we know is, she
taught school somewhere in the East. She was a little surprised at the way we took possession
of a stranger's home, but she enjoyed it as much as we. "It is so nice to be doing something
for some one again, something real homey and family-like," she remarked as she laid the table
for dinner.

We had dinner almost ready when we heard the wheels crossing the mossy log bridge. We raced
to let down the bars. Beside Daniel sat a dear dumpy little woman, her head very much bundled
up with a lot of old black veils. Daniel drove through the corral, into the yard, and right
up to the door. He helped her out so gently. She kept admonishing him, "Careful, Danyul, careful."
He handed out her crutch and helped her into the kitchen, where she sank, panting, into the
rocker. "It is my leg," she explained; "it has been that way ever since Danyul was a baby."
Then she pleaded, "Careful, careful," to Elizabeth, who was tenderly unwrapping her. "I wouldn't
have anything happen to this brown alapacky for anything; it is my very best, and I've had
it ever since before I went to the pore farm; but I wanted to look nice for Danyul, comin'
to his home for the first time an' all."

We had the happiest dinner party I ever remember. It would be powerfully hard for me to say
which was happier, "Danyul" or his mother. They just beamed upon each other. She was proud
of her boy and his pleasant home. "Danyul says he's got a little red heifer for me and he's
got ten cows of his own. Now ain't that fine? It is a pity we can't have a few apple trees,--a
little orchard. We'd live like kings, we would that." We explained to her how we got our fruit
by parcel post, and Danyul said he would order his winter supply of apples at once.

As soon as dinner was over, Danyul had to mend a fence so as to keep his cattle in their own
pasture. Mr. Stewart went to help and we women were left alone. We improved the time well.
Mrs. Holt would not lie down and rest, as we tried to persuade her to, but hobbled about, admiring
everything. She was delighted with the big, clean cellar and its orderly bins, in which Danyul
was beginning to store his vegetables. She was as pleased as a child with her room, and almost
wept when we told her which were "welcoming presents" from us. She was particularly delighted
with her red flower, and Mrs. O'Shaughnessy will be happy for days remembering it was she who
gave it. I shall be happy longer than that remembering how tickled she was with her bonnets.

She wanted to wipe the dishes, so she and I did up the dishes while Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and
Elizabeth put some finishing stitches in on their aprons. She sat on the highest seat we could
find, and as she deftly handled the dishes she told us this:--

"I should think you would wonder why Danyul ain't got me out of the porehouse before now. I've
been there more 'n ten years, but Danyul didn't know it till a month ago. Charlotte Nash wrote
him. Neither Danyul nor me are any master-hand at writin', and then I didn't want him to know
anyhow. When Danyul got into trouble, I signed over the little farm his pa left us, to pay
the lawyer person to defend him. Danyul had enough trouble, so he went to the penitentiary
without finding out I was homeless. I should think you would be put out to know Danyul has
been to the pen, but he has. He always said to me that he never done what he was accused of,
so I am not going to tell you what it was. Danyul was always a good boy, honest and good to
me and a hard worker. I ain't got no call to doubt him when he says he's innocent.

"Well, I fought his case the best I could, but he got ten years. Then the lawyer person claimed
the home an' all, so I went out to work, but bein' crippled I found it hard. When Danyul had
been gone four years I had saved enough to buy my brown alapacky and go to see him. He looked
pale and sad,--afraid even to speak to his own mother. I went back to work as broke up as Danyul,
and that winter I come down with such a long spell of sickness that they sent me to the pore
farm. I always wrote to Danyul on his birthday and I couldn't bear to let him know where I was.

"Soon's his time was out, he come here; he couldn't bear the scorn that he'd get at home, so
he come out to this big, free West, and took the chance it offers. Once he wrote and asked
me if I would like to live West. He said if I did, after he got a start I must sell out and
come to him. Bless his heart, all that time I was going to my meals just when I was told to
and eatin' just what I was helped to, going to bed and getting up at some one else's word!
Oh, it was bitter, but I didn't want Danyul to taste it; so, when I didn't come, he thought
I didn't want to give up the old home, and didn't say no more about it. Charlotte was on the
pore farm too, until her cousin died and she got left a home and enough to live on. Sometimes
she would come out to the farm and take me back with her for a little visit. She was good that
way. I never would tell her about Danyul; but this summer I was helpin' her dry apples and
somehow she jist coaxed the secret out. She wrote to Danyul, and he wrote to me, and here I
am. Danyul and me are so happy that we are goin' to send a ticket back to the farm for Maggie
Harper. She ain't got no home and will be glad to help me and get a rale home."

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and Elizabeth debated what more was needed to make the kitchen a bit more
homey. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy said a red cushion for the rocker, and Elizabeth said a white cat
to lie on the hearth. Mrs. Holt said, "Yes, I do need 'em both,--only it must be an old stray
tabby cat. This house is going to be the shelter of the homeless."

Well, I can't tell you any more about the Holts because we left next morning. Danyul came across
the bridge to bid us good-bye. He said he could never thank us enough, but it is we who should
be and are thankful. We got a little glow of happiness from their great blaze. We are all so
glad to know that everything is secure and bright for the Holts in the future.

That stop is the cause of my missing two letters to you, but this letter is as long as half
a dozen letters should be. You know I never could get along with few words. I'll try to do
better next time. But I can't imagine how I shall get the letters mailed. We are miles and
miles and miles away in the mountains; it is two days' ride to a post-office, so maybe I will
not get letters to you as often as I planned.

                         Sincerely yours,
                              ELINORE RUPERT STEWART.

VI

ELIZABETH'S ROMANCE

                              CAMP CLOUDCREST,
                                   September 12, 1914.

DEAR MRS. CONEY,--

I find I can't write to you as often as I at first intended; but I've a chance to-day, so I
will not let it pass unused. We are in the last camp, right on the hunting ground, in the "midst
of the fray." Our eyes met and held one another, and my thought crossed his.

"What do you suspect, Mr. Oxenham?" he asked.
"I suspect that I met Joseph and you know William," I said.

"But
I left William in charge here."

"And I found Joseph."

"Then where
is William?" At first none of
us talked; we just absorbed the wonderful green-gold beauty of the morning. The sky was clear
blue, with a few fleecy clouds drifting lazily past. The mountains on one side were crested;
great crags and piles of rock crowned them as far as we could see; timber grew only about halfway
up. Ranjitsinhji's batting has been variously described as satanic, electric, and elusive. "Serpentine"
would be far more accurate. Anyone in the least familiar with the famous Indian's style will
at once see the point of the epithet. On the other side of the road
lay the river, bordered by willows and grassy flats. There were many small lakes, and the ducks
and geese were noisily enjoying themselves among the rushes and water-grasses. Beyond the river
rose the forest-covered mountains, hill upon hill.

Elizabeth dressed with especial care that morning, and very pretty she looked in her neat shepherd's
plaid suit and natty little white canvas hat. Very soon she said, "I hope neither of you will
misunderstand me when I tell you that if my hopes are realized I will not ride with you much
longer. I never saw such a country as the West,--it is so big and so beautiful,--and I never
saw such people. You are just like your country; you have fed me, cared for me, and befriended
me, a stranger, and never asked me a word."

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy said, "Tut, tut, 'tis nothing at all we've done. 'Tis a comfort you've been,
hasn't she, Mrs. Stewart?"

