HISTORY

AND

ECCLESIASTICAL RELATIONS

OF THE

CHURCHES OF THE PRESBYTERIAL ORDER,

AT

AMOY, CHINA.

BY

REV. J.V.N. TALMAGE,

MISSIONARY OF THE PROT. REF. DUTCH CHURCH.

New York: WYNKOOP, HALLENBECK & THOMAS, PRINTERS, 113 FULTON ST. 1863.

PREFACE.

To the Ministers, Elders, and Members of the Reformed Dutch Church:

It is proper that I give some reasons for the publication of this paper. The importance of
the subject of the ecclesiastical organization of the churches gathered in heathen lands, I
conceive to be a sufficient reason. Those who may differ in regard to the views set forth in
this paper, will not dispute the importance of the subject. Instead of the questions involved
having been settled by any of the Presbyterian Denominations of this country (the Dutch Church
included among them), by experiments in India or any other heathen land, very few of the churches
gathered from the heathen, by these various Denominations, have yet arrived at a stage of development
sufficient for practical application of the experiment. (See foot-note, page 160.) There are,
however, a few mission churches, where the subject is now becoming one of vast practical importance.
The Church at Amoy stands out prominent among these. With the continuance of the divine blessing
there will soon be many such. Hence the importance of the discussion, and its importance now.

Many experiments have been made in reference to the best way of conducting the work of missions.
The Church has improved by them, and has been compelled to unlearn many things. We are continually
returning towards the simple plan laid down in God's Word. As the Church by experiment and
by discussion has thus been led to retrace some of her steps in the preliminary work of missions,
should she not be ready to take advantage of experiment and discussion, in reference to the
ecclesiastical organization of the mission churches, and stand ready to retrace some of her
steps in this second stage of the work of missions, if need be, in order to conform more fully
to the doctrines of our Presbyterial church polity? I would use the phrase Scriptural church
polity, but I suppose it is the universal belief of our Church, that Presbyterial polity is
scriptural. At any rate, it is the duty of the Church to examine the subject carefully. She
has nothing to fear from such examination. She should fear to neglect it.

In addition to the importance of the subject in itself considered, I have other reasons for
discussing it at the present time. There are mistaken impressions abroad in the Church, concerning
the views and course of your missionaries at Amoy, which must be injurious to the cause of
missions in our Church. It would seem to be a plain duty to correct these impressions. I will
quote an extract from a letter, I recently received, from an honored missionary of a sister Church:

"I have heard much, and seen some notices in the papers of the battle you fought on the floor
of Synod, and would like to hear your side of the subject from your own mouth, as the question
has also been a practical one with us. * * * * * We have our own Presbytery, and manage our
own business, and insist on not having too much of what they call the new science of Missionary
management; a science which, I believe, has been cultivated far too assiduously. It was this,
more than anything else, which kept me from going out under the A.B.C.F.M., and to Amoy. *
* * * * I hear, however, from some, that what you and the brethren there had formed, was some
sort of loose Congregational association. If so, I must judge against you, for I believe in
the jure divino of Presbytery (or Classis if you choose so to call it), and I think you and
they should have been allowed to form a Presbytery there, and manage all your own affairs,
and that your Boards at home should be content to consider themselves a committee to raise
and send on the funds. But it is hard for the D. D's and big folk at home to come to that.
They think they must manage everything, or all will go wrong; while how little it is that they
can be brought to know or realize of the real nature of the work abroad; and then it is the
old battle of patronage over again. Those who give the money must govern, and those who receive
it must give up their liberty, and be no longer Christ's freemen."

This is only a specimen, one of many, of the mistaken impressions abroad in the Church concerning
the views and doings of your Missionaries. May we not, must we not, correct them? The letter
also illustrates the evils resulting from allowing mistaken impressions to remain in the Church
uncorrected. There has long been an impression in our Church that the A.B.C.F.M. interfered
with the ecclesiastical affairs of our missions. We have been informed that several of our
young men, before our Church separated from that Board, were deterred thereby from devoting
themselves to the foreign Missionary work. The writer of the above letter, probably having
more of the Missionary spirit, was not willing, on that account, to give up the work, but was
led to offer himself to the Board of a sister Church. The Mission at Amoy, and our Church,
have thus been deprived of the benefit of his labors by means of an erroneous impression. When
we learned the fact of such an impression existing in this country, we endeavored to correct
it. In our letter of 1856, to General Synod, we called particular attention to the subject.
Here is a part of one sentence: "It seems to us a duty, and we take this opportunity to bear
testimony, that neither Dr. Anderson, nor the Prudential Committee have ever, in any communication
which we have received from them, in any way, either by dictation, or by the expression of
opinions, interfered in the least with our ecclesiastical relations." We failed to get that
letter published, and I find the erroneous impression still prevalent, working its mischief
in the churches.

But to return to the subject of the mistaken impressions concerning the views of your Missionaries
at Amoy. These impressions would have been partly corrected in the Church, if the report of
the proceedings of Synod, in "The Christian Intelligencer," had been more correct on this subject.
That paper states, that, on Friday evening, "Rev. Mr. Talmage then took the floor, and addressed
the Synod for nearly two hours," but does not give a single word or idea uttered by him. It
is careful to report the only unkind words against the Missionaries uttered during that whole
discussion, which, with this single exception, was conducted in a spirit of the utmost Christian
kindness; but does not give a word of the remarks made on the Friday evening previous, on that
very subject, in justification of their course.

It seems to be a duty, though painful, to speak particularly on this subject. This language
was used by the President of Synod, after asking whether the Synod was ready for the question,
"the question being about to be put," when an attempt to answer it seemed altogether out of
place. In all the circumstances it seemed almost like the charge of a judge to a jury. I do
not say that there is any improper spirit manifested, or opprobrious expressions employed in
this language, or that the President did wrong in waiting until the discussion was over before
he uttered it, or that the missionaries are not deserving of such severe censure--of all these
things let the Church judge--but I do say that the spreading of such language and such charges
broadcast, before the Church and before the world, demands that the missionaries be heard in
self-defense, or, which is all they ask, that they be allowed to state the facts and views
which guided them in their action. 

The "psychological examiner" in the Army, during the Great War, had the same general object
in view. It was desirable to measure the intelligence of each recruit as he entered the service,
since military experience had shown that men of low intelligence made poor soldiers, while those
of high intelligence made the best officers and non-commissioned officers, provided they also
possessed good physique and certain less measureable mental qualifications, such as courage and
leadership.

Applied psychology.

The Army psychologists, like the court psychologist, were engaged in applying scientific knowledge
to the practical problems of life; and there are many other applications of psychology, to education,
to medicine, to business and other occupations, as well as to the art of right living. Scientific
knowledge enables you to predict and control. Having devised scientific tests for intelligence,
you can predict of a six-year-old boy who tests low, that he will not get much good from the
regular classes in school; and thus you are in a position to control
the education of this boy for his own best interests.

In the Army, it happened during the earlier part of the war that
some companies or regiments made much slower progress in training
than others; and a whole Division was delayed for months because of
the backwardness of a single regiment.

When the psychological tests were introduced, these slow-learning units were found to contain a
disproportionate number of men of low intelligence. From that time on, it was possible by aid
of the tests to equalize the intelligence of different units when first formed, and thus insure
equal {4} progress in training. This was a good example of "control".

Most of us are attracted by the practical use of a science, and some have no patience with any
study that does not seem immediately practical. But really any science, however much it is applied,
must remain fundamentally a pure science; that is, it must seek most
of all to know and understand.

Practical scientific knowledge was usually first obtained without any inkling of how it might
be used. The science of electricity is the most striking example
of this. This question, after what has been said above, need not now be answered.
Doubtless the editor is responsible for what appears in his columns. The only resource left
the Mission seems to be the one I have chosen.

I regret the necessity of discussing the subject, since the action of the last Synod, but we
could not discuss it previously without running counter to the same advice which would now
restrain us. I do not at all suppose, however, that by the course I am taking I shall become
guilty of disobedience "to the authority of Synod." Neither should it be the occasion of creating
"dissensions in the churches." The discussion of any important subject in a proper spirit is
neither opposed to the doctrines of the Sacred Scriptures, nor to the doctrines of the Dutch
Church, and I am willing to leave it to those who may read the following pages to decide whether
there be in them any manifestation of an improper spirit. We, and those who differ from us,
are all seeking the same end, i.e. the glory of God through the advancement of his cause. All
that I ask for myself and co-laborers is an impartial hearing.

Perhaps, in order to guard against any mistaken impression, I ought to add that the relations
between the Missionaries and the Board of Foreign Missions of our Church, have always been
of the most pleasant character. Whatever have been their differences of opinion on this most
important subject, or on any other subject, they have not caused, so far as I am aware, the
least interruption of that warm Christian friendship which has always existed, or been the
occasion of one unkind utterance in all their mutual correspondence. Why not so? Cannot Christians
reason with each other, even on subjects of the highest moment, in such a spirit as not only
to avoid animosities, but even to increase personal friendship? If this paper should prove
the occasion of discussion in our Church, let me express the hope that such discussion will
be carried on in such a spirit.

J.V.N. TALMAGE.

Bound Brook, N.J., October, 1863.

The first Protestant Missionaries at Amoy arrived there in the year 1842. They were Dr. Abeel
of the American Reformed Dutch Church, and Bishop Boone of the American Episcopal Church. After
these there arrived Missionaries of the London Missionary Society, of the American Presbyterian
Church, of the English Presbyterian Church, and others of the American Reformed Dutch Church.

Bishop Boone soon left Amoy, and no others of his Church have since then been stationed there.
The American Presbyterian Mission was removed to other parts of China. At the present time
there are three Missions at Amoy, viz.: the Missions of the American Reformed Dutch Church,
of the London Missionary Society, and of the English Presbyterian Church.

The Missionaries of the London Missionary Society are Independents or Congregationalists, and
have organized their churches after the Congregational order. Thus their churches form a distinct
Denomination, and nothing further need be said of them in this paper.

The first Missionary of the English Presbyterian Church at Amoy was Dr. Jas. Young. He arrived
in May, 1850. At that time there were two Missionaries connected with our (R.D.C.) Mission,
viz.: Rev. E. Doty, on the ground, and Rev. J.V.N. Talmage, absent on a visit to the United
States. There were then under our care six native church members. Five of them had been baptized
by our Missionaries at Amoy. The other had been baptized in Siam, by a Congregationalist or
Presbyterian Minister of the A.B.C.F.M.

Dr. Young, being a physician, and not an ordained Minister, instead of commencing an independent
work, inasmuch as our doctrines and order of church government did not essentially differ from
those of his own Church, very naturally became more especially associated with us in our work.
A school under the care of our Mission, of which Mr. Doty did not feel able to continue the
charge, was passed over to his care. He also rendered medical assistance to the Missionaries,
and to the Chinese, both in Amoy, and by occasional tours in the country. In his labors he
was usually assisted by native Christians under our care.

The first ordained Missionary of the English Presbyterian Church, at Amoy, was Rev. William
C. Burns. He joined Dr. Young in July, 1851. While he rendered considerable assistance to the
brethren of the London Missionary Society, being ready to preach the gospel at every opportunity,
providentially he became especially associated with us, and with the native Christians under
our care. A remarkable outpouring of the Spirit of God had accompanied the labors of Rev. Mr.
Burns, in his native land. So the remarkable outpouring of that same Spirit in Amoy, and vicinity,
occurred sometime after his arrival, and much of this good work was manifestly connected with
his labors. The permanent work in the country around Amoy commenced through his instrumentality,
in connection with native members of the church under our care. We desired him to take the
charge of that work, and gather a church at Peh-chui-ia, under the care of the English Presbyterian
Church. But, at his urgent request, we took the pastoral oversight of the work in that region,
administering the sacraments to the native converts.

Rev. James Johnstone, of the same Mission, arrived in December, 1853. He undertook the care
of the church being gathered at Peh-chui-ia, assuming, in behalf of the English Presbyterian
Church, all the expenses thereof, we continuing the pastoral oversight until such time as his
knowledge of the language should be sufficient to enable him to relieve us.

Before the brethren of the English Presbyterian Church were able to assume pastoral responsibility,
the work spread from Peh-chui-ia to Chioh-be. It was thought best that we take the charge of
that station.

After the departure of Dr. Young, all the Missionaries of the English Presbyterian Church,
for several years, were unmarried men. Therefore, they resolved to devote themselves more especially
to work in the country, leaving to our especial care the church in the city of Amoy, and the
one out-station at Chioh-be. Amoy was still necessarily their place of residence. All their
work at Amoy was in connection with the church under our care. In the country we assisted them
as we had opportunity, and as occasion demanded. They did the same for us. In fact, we and
they have worked together as one Church, and almost as one Mission, with the exception of keeping
pecuniary matters distinct.

More recently the English Presbyterian Mission was reinforced by one member with a family,
and it seemed a proper time for them to commence more direct work at Amoy. A very populous
suburb (E-mng-kang) was selected as a suitable and promising station. They assumed the immediate
care, and all the expense of it, employing, as at all the other stations, indiscriminately,
members of their own or of our churches as helpers.

We are not afraid that our Church will ever blame us for working thus harmoniously, and unitedly,
with our English Presbyterian brethren, and we feel confident that none of her Missionaries
would consent to work on any other principles. If there be any who, under similar circumstances,
would refuse thus to work, this would be sufficient evidence that they had mistaken their calling.
If any blame is to be attached to the course the Missionaries have pursued, it is not that
they have worked thus in harmony and unison with the English Presbyterian brethren, but that
they have failed to keep the churches under their care ecclesiastically distinct. Some do feel
inclined to censure us for this. It must be, however, because of some great misapprehension
on their part. The Synod has distinctly uttered a contrary sentiment, i.e. that the course
of the Missionaries is not censurable. We do not believe that our Church, when she understands
the true state of the case, will ever censure us on this account. It would not be according
to the spirit of her Master. He prayed that His people might be one, but he never prayed for
their separation from each other. When separation is necessary, it is a necessary evil. But
more of this hereafter. Our Church might well have censured us, if we had adopted lower principles
as her representatives in building up the Church of Christ in China.

The first organization of a church at Amoy under our care, by the ordination of a Consistory,
took place in 1856. "The science of behavior" is the most recent attempt at a concise formula.

None
of these formulas is wholly satisfactory. Psychology does not like to call itself the science
of the soul, for that has a theological tang and suggests problems that have so far not seemed
accessible to scientific investigation. Psychology does not like very well to call itself the
science {2} of the mind, as the mind seems to imply some thing or machine, and there is no
such thing to be observed (unless it be the brain and body generally), and, anyway, psychology is
distinctly a study of actions rather than of things. Psychology does not like to limit itself
to the study of consciousness, but finds it necessary to study also unconscious actions. As to
"behavior", it would be a very suitable term, if only it had not become so closely identified with
the "behavioristic movement" in psychology, which urges that consciousness should be entirely
left out of psychology, or at least disregarded. "Behavior psychology", as the term would be understood
to-day, means a part of the subject and not the whole.

[Footnote: A series of waggish critics has evolved the following: "First psychology lost its
soul, then it lost its mind, then it lost consciousness; it still has behavior, of a kind."]

The best way of getting a true picture of psychology, and of reaching an adequate definition
of its subject-matter, would be to inspect the actual work of psychologists, so as to see what
kind of knowledge they are seeking. Such a survey would reveal quite a variety of problems under
process of investigation, some of them practical problems, others not directly practical.
Varieties of Psychology

Differential psychology.

One line of question
that always interests the beginner in psychology is as to how people
differ--how different people act under the same circumstances--and
why; and if we watch the professional psychologist, we often find
him working at just this problem. Especially
had we no reason for such a course, inasmuch as they were willing even to conform to our peculiarities.
We most cordially invited Mr. Douglas to unite with us in the organization of the Church, and
he as cordially accepted of the invitation.

In reference to this subject Mr. Douglas wrote to their Corresponding Secretary as follows:
"I need hardly say that this transaction does not consist in members of one church joining
another, nor in two churches uniting, but it is an attempt to build up on the soil of China,
with the lively stones prepared by the great Master-builder, an ecclesiastical body holding
the grand doctrines enunciated at Westminster and Dort, and the principles of Presbyterian
polity embraced at the Reformation by the purest churches on the continent and in Britain;
it will also be a beautiful point in the history of this infant Church that the under-builders
employed in shaping and arranging the stones, were messengers of two different (though not
differing,) churches in the two great nations on either side of the Atlantic."

The course of Mr. Douglas met with the decided approval of their Secretary, and, as he had
reason then to believe, and has since fully learned, with the approval of their Church.

We also sent a communication to our Church, addressing it to General Synod. We directed it
to the care of one of our prominent ministers, for a long time Secretary of the Board, with
the request that it be laid before the Church, using language as follows: "You will, doubtless,
receive this paper some months before the time for the next meeting of that Body [General Synod].
We would suggest therefore, that the paper be published, that the members of the next General
Synod may have the matter before them, and be the better prepared to make such disposition
of it as the subject may demand. We feel that the subject is one of very grave importance," &c.

Our communication was laid before the Board of Foreign Missions. They designated it a Memorial,
and decided that they had no right to publish it. Of course we had no means of publishing it
ourselves. It was laid before Synod among other papers of the Board.

It should be noticed that, in the foregoing Report, which was adopted by Synod, the most important
question--the vital question--of our communication, i.e. the unity of the churches under the
care of the English Presbyterian Missionaries and of us, is entirely ignored; and consequently,
without the fact being stated, we were directed to divide those churches, and form a part of
them into a distinct Denomination.

If the English Presbyterian Church had disapproved of the course of their Missionaries in uniting
with us in organizing the native churches with our peculiarities, we think even that would
have been strange. It would have appeared to us as though they were sacrificing some of the
essentials of Presbyterianism for the sake of non-essentials, for, in our organization, they
found all that they hold essential in doctrine, order, and customs. Suppose the position of
the two Missions had been reversed, they had been first on the ground, and when we arrived
we found the Church being planted and beginning to grow up after their order. If we had found
in the Church thus growing up all that we hold essential and important, even though it had
some little peculiarities which were theirs and not ours, ought not our Church to have permitted
us to work with them, as they have been permitted to work with us? If such be not the true
Christian spirit, than we frankly confess that we know not, and despair of ever learning from
the Word of God, what the Christian spirit is on such a subject. But whether such disapproval
on the part of the English Presbyterian Church would have been strange or not, it would not
have been so strange as was the decision of our Church, that the churches organized by the
English Presbyterian brethren and by us--all one in fact, growing out of each other, and all
adopting our order, should not be organically one. Hence, when we learned from our Board the
decision of Synod, we felt (correctly or incorrectly) that there must be some misapprehension.
Surely our Church cannot have correct views of our position, and our course of proceeding.
Hence, we returned answer to the Board as follows:--(Letter dated December 23, 1857.)

After speaking of our hearty approval of the course of our Church in separating from the A.B.C.F.M.,
though as individuals we took our leave of that Board with feelings of sadness, we remarked:

"It seems proper to us also, on the present occasion, to allude to a subject deeply affecting
the interests of the little Church which God has graciously gathered by our instrumentality
from among this people. This Church is now small, but we trust that, with a continuance of
the Divine blessing, the 'little one' will soon 'become a thousand,' and the 'small one a strong
nation.' 'The Lord will hasten it in his time.' We love this Church, and cannot but watch over
her interests with jealous care. Besides this, the Great Shepherd has made us under-shepherds,
and commanded us to watch over the interests of this flock. We gave a brief history of our
work, and an account of the present condition and peculiar circumstances of the churches here
under our care, and stated at considerable length our views in reference to the future ecclesiastical
relations of these churches, in a paper prepared for the information of our Church at home,
and addressed to General Synod. The facts thus communicated ought to be known by the Church.
It seems to us very unfortunate that that paper was not published according to our suggestion.
It stated facts of grave importance. If we could have had a representative in General Synod,
the previous publication of our paper might have been unnecessary. But, without such a representative,
it was hardly possible that the subject, by a single reading of so long a document, could be
brought before the minds of all the members of Synod with sufficient clearness.... Therefore
it is not strange that some of the important points in the paper should have been entirely
overlooked, and also that certain grave misconceptions should have got abroad in the Church
concerning the views expressed by us.

"That misconceptions have got abroad in our Church concerning our views, we have abundant evidence
from various private letters. They were written with the most kindly feelings towards us, but
evidently under the impression that we find difficulty in organizing our churches according
to the order of the Dutch Church. We have never found any difficulty of this kind. It is true
that when we were called to the solemn duty of commencing a church organization in an empire
containing one-third of the inhabitants of the globe, we gave the subject of church polity
a more careful investigation than we had ever before given it. The result of this investigation
was a cordial (and, as we think, intelligent) approval of the order and forms of our own Church.
We have commenced our organization according to the order of the Dutch Church, and we expect
to proceed, as fast as the providence and grace of God lead the way, after the same order;
and we use the forms of our own Church. Our Presbyterian brethren unite with us in these things.

"But it is not strange that such misconceptions should be spread in the Church. They are the
necessary result of publishing certain remarks made in Synod concerning our paper, without
publishing the paper itself.

"In the Report of the Synod, Synod's Board, Board of Foreign Missions, it is said: 'It would
have been well if the memorial had been placed, in a printed form, in the hands of the ministry.
This they [the Missionaries] suggested, but the Board felt it was purely a Synodical matter--that
they could not act in the case.' With all due respect, and with the kindest feelings, we desire
to make three remarks on this subject. First. We do not understand the principle on which the
Board felt called upon to decide whether our letter should be published or not. It was not
addressed to the Board, nor sent to the care of the Board. The opinion of members of the Board
as individuals might have been asked, but we suppose that the Board in their official capacity
had nothing to do with the paper. Secondly. Inasmuch as the paper emanated from us, if 'it
would have been well' to have had it published, our suggestion was a sufficient warrant for
its publication. The responsibility would have been ours. It had not yet become a Synodical
matter. Afterwards it would have been a legitimate question for the Synod to decide whether
they would entertain a paper coming before them in such a manner. This question might well
have been left to General Synod. Thirdly. A short time previous to the writing of that paper,
unless our memory is greatly at fault, a communication was received from the Arcot Mission
(or Classis of Arcot), addressed to General Synod, which was thus published, according to the
request of the Arcot brethren, and without the authority of Synod. Social psychology studies
the individual in his social relations.

Psychology and biology.

Biology, being the science of living creatures,
includes psychology, which studies these creatures on the mental side.
The science of life includes the science of mental life. But, we have also learned, how easily our views may be mistaken. In our paper, addressed
to General Synod, when discussing the difficulties in the way of the Synod's jurisdiction over
churches so far removed in time, distance, and circumstances, we remarked:--'Will written correspondence
supply the place of representation? It would place our Classis under great disadvantages. There
must usually be a delay of one or two years on every subject on which there is need of a decision
by either Synod. If anything is not understood, or is misunderstood, in our communications,
there will be no one to explain for us. Difficulties of this kind, from want of knowledge of
the civil and social circumstances of this people may frequently occur. Could we have representatives
from among us, they could usually be easily explained; but without this representation, they
can only be explained by a long correspondence, which may cause years of delay.' The whole
of this misunderstanding, which has arisen out of our first communication, and the length of
time and the amount of correspondence which may yet be necessary, before we can see 'eye to
eye,' give a striking illustration of the force of these remarks."

