

Often while loading my horse the thought struck me whether the poor brute ever had a wish to
protest, 'Surely this is becoming too bad!' and that reminds me that one must be very careful
not to overload. The knapsack must not be filled with kaboe mealies (roasted maize) for one's
self, while the nosebag of the poor horse remains empty. 

This recipe was given Mary by a friend, a noted housekeeper and cook.
A "DUTCH" RECIPE FOR PUMPKIN PIE

Line a medium-sized pie-tin with
pastry. Cover the crust thickly with thinly-sliced, uncooked pumpkin,
cut in inch lengths.

The following morning the lager would start at three o'clock, and, as my horse was in good
condition, the owner of the horse that had been left behind asked me to fetch it before the
lager left. He explained to me where I would find it tied to a tree about half an hour's ride
from the lager, so I started with a friend at about two o'clock at night. On the way we came
across a mule that had wandered away while grazing, ignorant of all the danger he was exposing
himself to in the uninhabited Boschveld. The creature gave us much trouble by refusing to be
caught and constantly dodging behind a tree, so we lost a great deal of time. On our way back,
close to the lager, we heard the whine of the wild-dog, the well-known feared wolf. We thought
it very interesting to come across a wild animal of which we had no fear just then. But when
we reached the camping-ground of the lager, where only the trolley stood to which the wandering
mule belonged, we found to our surprise that both white men and Kaffirs had given up the search
for the mule for fear of the wild-dog. They had all congregated round large fires. The wild-dog,
however, is harmless by himself; like the khakies, his strength lies in numbers. We had to
leave the sick horse to join the bucks of the Boschveld on its recovery, until the horse-sickness
came. After a long, tiring, but very interesting ride we arrived at the Sabie, where the rest
of the lager was already encamped. The Sabie is about the size of the Krokodil River, and its
scenery of woods and valleys formed a sharp contrast to the deadly monotony of the Boschveld
that lay behind us. We had crossed the bare desert and were now in a part of the country inhabited
by Kaffirs. The following day the lager was removed half an hour further on, and there we remained
a few days.

At night four of us were persuaded to go eel-catching in a crocodile-pool that we had discovered
a little further on. We made a large fire to entice the eels, and, as we were none of us great
lovers of angling, we made a splendid bonfire, as there was plenty of dry wood to be had.

There was something particularly attractive in these large fires on those quiet, dark nights
of the wilderness. The glow threw a sombre light on the water that gave one a creepy feeling,
as if a crocodile were on the watch for us in the water, and lions at our back between the
large trees. What must they have thought of us?

The bank of the river seemed to be about 6 feet high, and not very steep. We made the fire
closer and closer to what seemed the bank. I saw someone lift up a huge branch, walk to the
bank with it, and plant his left foot firmly on the ground. The reeds gave way beneath him.
What seemed a firm bank, by the glow of the fire, proved to be a mass of reeds and grass, and
the poor man fell down a height of 6 feet, his fall being hastened by the heavy branch he held.
For a moment we stood irresolute. To jump after him into a crocodile-pool! But he called for
help, and we had to act immediately. Fortunately, one acts almost instinctively in such cases.
One of the others slid down the bank--the thought striking him: 'If only there are not two
crocodiles!' Landing on a horizontal branch, he stretched out his hand to the drowning man,
someone else took hold of his left hand, and so they were both saved. If a crocodile had been
in the neighbourhood, he would probably have stood on the defensive. Such a queer, two-legged
animal who led the attack in such a strange but decided way must have roused his respect.

This piece of fun put an end to our eel-fishing. We had caught only one eel--and a man.

The following morning there was parade for President Steyn. His speech to us was touching and
to the point, and showed that he believed in a good ending to the war, if the burghers were
capable of enduring such hardships as at present. Then he also told us in what a hurry he was
to reach his burghers, as he was afraid that the enemy were doing all in their power to make
them turn against him. We all liked President Steyn very much.

On our journey through the Selatie Goldfields, past the Marietje River to Pilgrim's Rest, we
crossed the steepest mountain that I have ever seen. A double span of oxen was harnessed to
each waggon. The oxen were lent us for the occasion by the Boers living on the plateau in front
of us. After every few steps upwards we had to put stones under the wheels to prevent the waggons
from slipping back. It took our little lager nearly all day to reach the plateau. Then we had
a most magnificent view of the Boschveld that lay behind us. In the distance the Lobombo Mountains
were visible on the boundary of the Portuguese and Transvaal territory. The first rains had
fallen on the plateau, so the green grass was a refreshing change for our eyes. The horses
would be able to graze well, and the good feeding would soon make them lose their old coats,
and then they would be sleek and glossy again.

From the high plateau we descended, over a 'lumpy' veld, with an oasis here and there in a
hole or valley, or on the top of a hill, to Pilgrim's Rest. Some miles before we reached this
little town we passed beside the water-works that supply a strong stream of water for the machinery
of the gold-mines. We simply stormed the shops, that were still well supplied with provisions,
and bought all sorts of luxuries and necessaries for our journey. From Pilgrim's Rest we once
more crossed a steep mountain, along a road that for length and height has not its equal. In
the neighbourhood of Ohrigstad, a little town that we left to our right, I asked a Boer woman
whether the fever did not make one's life impossible there, and I got a very naïf reply: 'No;
this year the fever was not so bad. We all got ill, but not one of us died.'

The rest of our journey to the north of Lydenburg, over Spekstroom River, along Watervalop,
over Steenkampsberg to Roossenekal, was very tedious. The uninhabited Boschveld was very interesting,
and we had sufficient provisions then, but the poor, uncivilized Boer inhabitants of the Lydenburg
district were unable to supply us with necessaries, the want of which we were beginning to
feel. We could not buy a loaf of bread anywhere. And it is anything but pleasant in a time
of war to come across such lax and unenergetic people as they proved to be. The men were nearly
always at home, and appeared to be discouraged and unwilling to fight. We had all lost our
sweet tooth. That one could tell by such expressions as: 'Even if you give me sugar:--' But
occasionally we got a more desirable substitute, when a beehive was discovered in a cleft of
a rock. Some of our men are particularly clever at discovering a hive. I have often seen a
man stand gazing up at the sky, walk on a short distance, and again stand gazing, and after
awhile appear with a bucket of honey. By watching the flight of the bees they find out in what
direction the hive is. 1/2 cup sugar. 1 tablespoonful mixed yellow mustard. 1 tablespoonful olive
oil. 1 teaspoonful salt.

1 tablespoonful vinegar with flavor of peppers.

Thin with vinegar and boil until thick. Add 1 teaspoonful of grated horseradish.

To flavor vinegar cover finely-cut green and red peppers with vinegar
and allow all to stand about 24 hours, then strain and use the vinegar.

PEPPER

RELISH

Chop fine 12 sweet red peppers, 12 sweet green peppers and 8 small onions. Put all in a bowl and
cover with boiling water and let stand five minutes. Drain off, cover again with boiling water
and let stand ten minutes. Then place in an agate colander or muslin bag and let drain over
night. The following morning add 1 quart of good sour vinegar, 1-1/2 cups sugar, 2 even teaspoonfuls
salt and boil 20 minutes. While hot fill air-tight jars. This is excellent.

PICKLED RED CABBAGE

Shred red cabbage, not too fine, and sprinkle liberally with salt. Stand in a cool place 24 hours.
Then press all moisture from the cabbage, having it as dry as possible; stand the earthen bowl
containing the cabbage in the sun for a couple of hours. Take a sufficient quantity of vinegar
to cover the cabbage. A little water may be added to the vinegar if too sour. Add 1 cup sugar to
a gallon of vinegar and a small quantity of celery seed, pepper, mace, allspice and cinnamon.
Boil all about five minutes and pour at once over the cabbage. The hot vinegar will restore
the bright red color to the cabbage. Keep in stone jar.

MUSTARD PICKLES

24 cucumbers, 1 quart of small onions, 6 peppers, 2 heads of cauliflower, 4 cups of sugar,
or less; celery or celery seed, 3 quarts of good vinegar, 1/2 pound of ground yellow mustard,
1 tablespoonful turmeric powder, 3/4 cup of flour.

The seeds were removed from the cucumbers and cucumbers were cut in inch-length pieces, or use
a few medium-sized cucumbers cut in several pieces and some quite small cucumbers. (The quantity
of cucumbers when measured should be the same as if the larger ones
had been used.) One quart of small whole onions, 6 peppers, red, green
and yellow, two of each, cut in small pieces.

Place all together in an agate preserving kettle and let stand in salt water over night. In
the morning put on the range, the vegetables in agate kettle, let boil a few minutes, then drain
well. Take three quarts of good vingar, 4 cups of sugar, if liked quite sweet; 2 teaspoons of
either celery seed or celery cut in small pieces. Put the vinegar, sugar and celery in a preserving
kettle, stand on stove and let come to a boil; then add the other ingredients. When boiling
have ready a half pound of ground mustard, 3/4 cup of flour, 1 tablespoon of turmeric powder,
all mixed to a smooth paste with a little water. Cook until the mixture thickens. Add all the
other ingredients and boil until tender. Stir frequently to prevent scorching. Can while hot
in glass air-tight jars.

AUNT SARAH'S CUCUMBER PICKLES

Always use the cucumbers which come late in the season for pickles.

Cut small green cucumbers from vine, leaving a half-inch of stem. Scrub with vegetable brush,
place in a bowl and pour over a brine almost strong enough to float an egg; 3/4 cup of salt
to seven cups of cold water is about the right proportion. Allow them to stand over night in this
brine. Drain off salt water in the morning. Heat a small quantity
of the salt water and pour over small onions which have been "skinned."

Use half the quantity of onions you have of cucumbers, or less. Allow the onions to stand in
hot salt water on back of range a short time. Heat 1 cup of good sharp cider vinegar, if too
sour, add 1/2 cup of water, also add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a couple of whole cloves; add
cucumbers and onions (drained from salt water, after piercing each
cucumber several times with a silver fork). Place a layer at a time
in an agate stew-pan containing hot vinegar. Allow them to remain
a few minutes until heated through, when fill heated glass jars with
cucumbers and onions; pour hot vinegar over until jars are quite full.
Place rubbers on jars and screw on tops. These pickles will be found,
when jars are opened in six months' time, almost as crisp and fine
as when pickles are prepared, when taken fresh from the vines in summer.
Allow jars to stand 12 hours, when screw down tops again. Press a
knife around the edge of jar tops before standing away to be sure
the jars are perfectly air-tight.

"ROT PFEFFERS" FILLED WITH CABBAGE

Cut
the tops from the stem end of twelve sweet (not hot) red peppers or
"rot pfeffers," as Aunt Sarah called them. Carefully remove seeds,
do not break outside shell of peppers.

The condition of the people in Zoutpansberg and in Waterberg, where the enemy had been, was
not very cheerful. Everyone complained that there was no sugar to be had, that the meal was
getting low, and that soon there would be no clothes. Pietersburg was exhausted by the commandos,
and the courage of the inhabitants was nearly at an ebb. They would not yet make the sacrifice
that would part them from their families. The enemy had not yet driven them to despair by the
destruction of their fields and goods.

Every sensible person knew that the Republics would lose in the long-run in a guerilla war
unless something unforeseen happened. At the time that we fled from Pretoria my mother said
she would have hope as long as her 'gorillas' remained in the veld. Even if we clung to a straw,
the possibility always remained that things might take a favourable turn as long as a fair
number of burghers remained in the veld.

The burghers from the different districts now in Waterberg were earnest and full of courage.
Noticeable changes for the better had been made. Beyers, a man in whom the men had the utmost
faith, was made Assistant-Commandant-General, and was to lead a commando of 1,500 horsemen
from Waterberg, Zoutpansberg, Krugersdorp, etc., to the Hoogeveld. The discipline was much
stricter. Cooper and Fanie Grobler, who had been accused of high treason, promised to keep
a sharper look-out for spies and traitors. And we still always hoped for an eventual rebellion
in Cape Colony. That hope was our life-buoy on which we kept our eyes fixed. We felt that there
our safety lay, and the enthusiasm of the commando was heightened by the desire to celebrate
Paardekraal Day in Krugersdorp on December 15. As a sailor longs for the sea, so we longed
for a meeting with the khakies when we left for the Magalies Mountains in the beginning of
December. Our commando was light and mobile, with provisions for a short time only. Such heavy
cannon as the Long Toms were of no use to us now. Hence-forward we were to live on the produce
of the surrounding country, as there was no basis from which we were to operate. Besides this,
the khakies very kindly made over some of their provisions, arms, and ammunition to us in a
skirmish or battle, so that afterwards we had more Lee-Metfords than Mausers in our possession.

At Krokodil River I had the privilege of seeing how a honey-bird takes a human being to a bees'
nest. As we were lying under a tree, a honey-bird settled close to us. Corporal Botman followed
it as it flew chirping from tree to tree, and called to it that he was following, until the
bird stopped at the hive. The grateful finder always rewards the bird with a piece of honeycomb
that he puts aside for it. But I have never been able to discover whether the bird or the insects
eat the honey. I know that the 'bug-birds,' that are always seen on or near cattle, do not
feed on the bugs with which the cattle are covered, but on the locusts that fly about the herd.
Last week, when our guards took us for a walk outside the fort, I noticed that a kind of sparrow
in India has the same trick of catching the locusts that are driven on ahead by the cattle.

I shall not try to give a description of the works of the machinery that moved mechanically
to the Magalies Mountains, for I should have to guess at the particulars in this historical
little tale. Mechanical I call the journey, for there were days and nights in which we were
numbed, body and soul, exhausted by hunger and thirst and want of sleep.

When we were at Bethany, a convoy of the enemy was seen moving in the direction of Commandonek.
When it noticed our guard, it dragged its curved body with great zeal through the pass. I think
the khakies also must have been bored to death on those long, fruitless journeys. We left Bethany
towards evening, and reached the Magalies Mountains the following morning after a tiring journey
in the night past Sterkstroom, through the Kromriverskloof to the foot of Onuapadnek, or Boschfonteinnek.
(I learnt the names from the inhabitants.) In the kloof we passed the burnt remains of the
convoy that was taken by Commandant Boshoff--who joined De la Rey after having taken Steyn
to his destination--and his brave little troop of burghers. They were obliged to abandon the
convoy, however, on the arrival of reinforcements for the enemy. A sickening stench came from
the corpses that they had left unburied in their flight.

We rested a few hours at the top of the steep nek. On descending on the other side we came,
to our mutual surprise, upon De la Key's lager at the foot of the mountain on Barnard's farm.

XI

BATTLE OF NOOITGEDACHT

We were busy all evening baking vet-koek (a kind of scone fried in lard), as we had received
the order to be ready to leave the following morning at one o'clock, and to take provisions
sufficient for two days. Although our officers were beginning to see the advisability of keeping
their plans secret, we were able to guess that we were going to attack General Clements' camp,
an hour's ride further east at Nooitgedacht--particularly as the chances of success, in case
of an eventual attack, were being discussed by some of the officers. The general opinion was
that Clements' force was 5,000 strong.

We left quite three-quarters of an hour later than the fixed time in the early morning of December
13, 1900, and recrossed the steep, narrow neck, took a way to our right in the Kromriverskloof,
making a sharp turn to Elandskrans, where a strong outpost had been placed by the enemy on
the Magalies Mountains.

That was the crust through which we had to bite to get at the dainties of the booty. It cannot
be denied that victory and booty, in our impoverished circumstances, were very close together
in our thoughts. The enemy's camp lay at the foot of the long, high cliff that forms a precipice
on that side of the mountain, while the slope of the mountain on our side was not steep, and
there were a great many footholds and boulders. The artillery had been left in the neck of
the pass to protect the lagers. Beyers, with some Zoutpansbergers, turned away from us to the
right to reach Elandskrans along the mountain ridge. It appeared, therefore, that Beyers and
Kemp were going to make the attack from the north, with 1,000 men, and that Kemp had the centre
and the left wing. We were again too late. The sun had risen when we began the attack. Corporal
Botman was ordered by Kemp to surround the extreme right of the enemy's right wing, with thirty
men.

We had to storm the left to enclose the enemy in the half-circle. We were exposed to a rain
of bullets, and had to storm through ravines and reefs, sometimes racing our horses, then leading
them, and making use of every cover. General Beyers, with his splendid sharp-shooters, was
already in hot action with the right wing, and Commandant Kemp in the centre had forced his
way close to the enemy. We tied our horses together behind a reef, left them in charge of a
few men, and advanced, spreading ourselves in groups of three, four and five. A moment of extreme
anxiety followed.

Not to expose ourselves unnecessarily, we had to peep from behind the rocks, shoot the course
clear, and run to the next cover. Malherbe and I stayed as close as possible to our cool, collected,
brave corporal, and we had to gasp for breath sometimes if trying to keep up to him. The others
forced their way upwards more to the left, and so formed the furthest left point of the half-moon.

While the three of us were pushing our way from position to position into the neighbourhood
of the few khakies who already dared not raise their heads from behind the rocks, I noticed,
some 500 paces to our front, a number of khakies moving in our direction. I warned Malherbe
to keep up his courage, as the enemy were getting reinforcements. A moment later, while our
corporal had again moved onwards, I noticed several khakies on a stone ridge some 150 paces
in front of us. It appeared that they were driven on by part of the centre and right wing,
for just then two men made their appearance, whom I at once recognised as Boers from the colour
of their clothes and the quick way in which they aimed at me. I stooped quick as a hare, and
immediately rose again. The enemy now surrendered, I believe to the number of two or three
hundred of the Northumberland Fusiliers, called the 'Fighting Fifth' on account of their courage
and bravery. We also took on the mountain a heliograph that the enemy had broken.

The khakies acknowledged that we had taken the position with the greatest possible speed. We
were in the majority. But it must not be forgotten that we were the attacking party and had
to expose ourselves, and also that, although the battle on the mountain extended over a long
line, our right wing had still to reckon with the reinforcements that were sent up through
a narrow kloof from the camp. It was a repetition of Selikatsnek. 1/2 pound sugar. 1/2 pound
flour. Pinch of salt. Flavor with lemon essence.

Mix the same as other small cakes. Drop spoonfuls quite a distance apart on the cold pan or
tin on which they are to be baked as the dough spreads. These are very thin, delicious wafers
when baked.
FRAU SCHMIDT'S SUGAR COOKIES

1 cup lard and butter, mixed. 2 cups
granulated sugar, and 2 eggs, all creamed together; then add 1 teaspoon
soda (mix with a little sour milk). Flavor with vanilla.

Beat all
well together.

Afterwards I heard that Commandant Badenhorst, of Pretoria (who had attacked the enemy before
our arrival, at the foot of the mountain, and so suffered the greatest loss), was already retreating,
but, hearing the fighting on the mountain, had renewed his attack.

The enemy could not stand the fire that we opened upon them, and had to retreat from the camp
in the direction of Commandonek. The inevitable consequence was that the troops on the west,
opposite De la Rey, had to retreat hurriedly so as not to be cut off by the wedge that was
forcing its way along the mountains into the camp. They were far beyond reach of our bullets.
Where De la Rey's cannon were, and why they did not make themselves heard, I do not know. Neither
do I know why General Smuts did not cut off the retreat of the enemy to the south-east. They
had placed a few cannon to our left in the valley, and bombarded us fiercely on the mountain
without much result. The balls of a small Maxim flew past us with a hissing sound and hindered
us in our aim.

The waggons that were inspanned fled in the direction of Commandonek, and halted in the valley
at a respectful distance from us. Although the camp appeared to be almost deserted, a continual
firing was heard below us. I could not make out from where it came until I suddenly discovered
several small troops of horsemen who galloped at intervals from behind a wall in the shade
of some trees. If a little of the sour milk is saved until last, the soda dissolved in that, and
then added to the cake batter, it will give a brick red appearance.
This is an excellent cake. The stiffly beaten white of egg added last.
Bake in two layers.

While Malherbe and I were peering from behind our hurriedly erected entrenchment, and occasionally
firing a few shots, I discovered four or five brave khakies busy dragging along an ammunition
waggon, or a gun; from such a distance we could not distinguish which. We fired at them with
a sight of 800 paces, but did not hit them, as the horizontal distance to the camp was not
more than 400 paces, and we should have used a sight of 600 paces, but the height of the mountain
was very misleading. Immediately afterwards a span of mules came in the direction of the supposed
gun, so Malherbe and I retreated as fast as we could, to find a better cover more to the left.
It is strange how in a battle one always has an idea that all the threatened danger is aimed
specially at one's self.

We had to be on the look-out not to fire at our own people, some of whom were already in the
camp. My brother, Malherbe, and I went to the narrow kloof that I have already mentioned, after
a fruitless search for our horses, which had meanwhile been taken to the entrance of the kloof,
and I heard from my brother that our brave General had been wounded in the leg by a shell.
During the search for our horses we had noticed a long dust-cloud at the end of Kromriverskloof,
near Buffelspoort, moving from Rustenburg in the direction of Commandonek--in all probability
reinforcements for the enemy, arriving too late. 

She placed in it a rack made of small wooden strips to prevent the jars resting on the bottom
of the boiler; filled the jars with uncooked fruit or vegetables, poured over the jars of fruit
hot syrup and over the vegetables poured water, placed the jars, uncovered, in the boiler;
water should cover about half the height of jars. Boil until contents of jars are cooked, add
boiling syrup to fill fruit jars and screw the tops on tightly.
PEAR CONSERVE

Use 5 pounds of pears, not too soft or over-ripe,
cut like dice. Some of the khakies had fallen from the high cliffs, where they had to lie unburied--like
the soldiers on Amajuba in 1881.

We led our horses to the opening of the kloof, and then galloped into camp under the thundering
noise of the shells that the enemy were firing at us from the distance. There was no control
possible among the burghers. Each one loaded his horse with whatever he could lay his hands
on, and there was no thought of following up the retreating enemy. They did not leave us undisturbed
in our glory, but aimed lyddite at us, which had the desired effect, that we in our disorder
did not storm the front positions, but retreated in the direction of our camp, a quarter of
a mile in among the trees. There Veld-Kornet Klaassen ordered his men to off-saddle and give
the horses a rest. Meanwhile the camp was burnt, flames arose in all directions, and thousands
of cartridges exploded.

