When he had written it, he stepped to the foot of the stairs, and called to one of the guards.
Then he slipped his hand under his cassock, drew out his watch, noted the hour, and in a firm
voice--one intended to be obeyed--said:

"Go back into your cell and sit there until I come. Do not worry if I am away longer than I
expect, and do not be frightened when the key is turned on you. It is best that you be locked
up for a while. You should give thanks to God, my dear woman, that I have found you."

Chapter XXI

The news of Mike's arrest had been received by kitty's neighbors with varying degrees of indifference.
Everybody realized that, as the run-over boy had lost nothing but his breath--and but little
of that, judging from his vigorous howl when Mike picked him up--nothing would come of the
affair so long as the present captain ruled the precinct. Kitty and John and all who belonged
to them were too popular around the station; too many of the boys had slipped in and slipped
out of a cold night, warmed up by the contents of her coffee-pot.

Indeed, between the captain and the denizens of "The Avenue," only the most friendly, amicable,
and delightful personal relations prevailed. To the habitual criminal, the sneak-thief, and
the hold-up, he might be a mailed despot swinging a mailed fist, but to the occasional "Monday
drunk," or the man who had had the best or the worst of it in a fight, or to one like Mike
who was the victim of an unavoidable accident, he was only a heathen idol of justice behind
which sat a big-waisted, tightly belted man whose wife and daughters everybody knew as he himself
knew everybody in return; who belonged to the same lodge, played poker in the same up-stairs
room when off duty, and was as tender-hearted in time of trouble as any one of their other
acquaintances. Not to have allowed Mike, a man he knew, a man who had been Kitty and John's
driver for years, to hunt up his own bond, would have been as unwise and impossible as his
releasing a burglar on straw bail, or a murderer because the dead man could not make a complaint.

When, therefore, Mike burst into the kitchen with the additional information that "the cap"
had let him go to bring back the wagon and somebody with "cash" enough to go bail, a general
movement, headed by Tim Kelsey, who happened to be passing at the time, was immediately organized--Tim
to proceed at once to the station-house, take the captain on one side, and so end the matter.
Locking up Mike, even threatening him, was, as the captain knew, an invasion of the rights
of "The Avenue." Nobody within its confines had ever been entangled in the meshes of the law--simply
because nobody had wanted to break it. It was the howling boy who should have been locked up
for getting under Mike's wheels, or his father who ought to have kept his son off the street.

Mike listened impatiently to the discussion and, watching his chance, beckoned to Kitty, shut
the door upon the two, and poured into her ear a full account of what he had seen and heard
at the station-house.

"Well, what's that got to do with it?" Kitty demanded. "What did she have to do with the boy?"

"Nothing, don't I tell ye--she's been swipin' a department store, and they got her dead to rights."

"Who's been swipin'? What are ye talkin' about, Mike? Stop it now--I've got a lot to do, and--"

"The woman ye put to bed that night. The one ye picked up near St. Barnabas, and brought in
here and dried her off. She skipped in the mornin' without sayin' 'thank ye'--why, ye must
remember her! She was--"

Kitty clapped her two palms to her face, framing her bulging eyes--a favorite gesture when
she was taken completely by surprise.

"That woman!" she cried, staring at Mike. "Where is she now? Tell me--"

"I don't know--but she--"

"Ye don't know, and ye come down here with this yarn? Don't ye try and fool me, Mike, or I'll
break every bone in yer skin. Go on, now! How do ye know it's the same woman?"

"I'm tellin' ye no lies. Come back with me and see for yerself. The cap will let ye go down
and talk to her. I heard Father Cruse tell ye to keep an eye out for her if she ever came around
here agin. Ye got to hurry or they'll have her in the Black Maria on the way to the Tombs.
Bunky told me so."

Kitty stood in deep meditation. She remembered that Mike had been in the kitchen when the woman
sat by the stove. They are not up to this kind of thing, so I am trying to teach them to be
men, and when we get that lesson we will try the higher one. Of course, I give them the moral
side of every lesson and point out how God has worked through some mighty mean material.

"We still have a fight once in a while during class hours, and I call
time when they get too near the stove, but this is to be expected
in a class which is entirely self-governing.

I never have said one word about anything they have done in the class, except to impress upon
them that they should be men and the lesson is working slowly.

"Now, my good sir, don't try to reply to this letter.

I know you get a good many just like it, and I am writing just to
give you my experience in the hope that it may help some one else;
also because I promised to let you know what progress the class was
making.

"If you will drop into ---- in a year from now I hope to be able to point to a much larger class
than the first six months has shown and to show you the majority
in the church.

"Thanking you for reading this far and with kindest wishes, I am "Very truly yours."

=The Boy the Main Issue=

The idea that must continually be kept in
mind is the boy's good and the boy. A lot of our teachers in the public
schools are trying to teach the subject-matter of the book when they
ought to be teaching the boy. They employ static methods. You can
get up a goal for attainment and the boy will reach the goal. I'll be there later on, ye can tell the captain. Mr. Codman, please
send over one of your boys to mind my place. John ain't turned up and won't for an hour. That
trunk went to Astoria instead of the Astor House, bad 'cess to it, and that's about as far
apart as it could git. And, Mike, don't stand there with yer tongue out! And don't let Toodles
go with ye. Get back as quick as ye can--and tell the captain to make it easy for me, that
if the boy's badly hurt I'll go and nurse him if he ain't got anybody to take care of him.
Git out, ye varmint--thank ye, Tim Kelsey, I'll do as much for you next time ye have to go
to jail. Good-by"--and she kept on to Kling's.

Otto's store was full of customers when Kitty strode in. Even little Masie had been pressed
into service to help on with the sales, as well as one of the "Dutchies" whom Kling had brought
up from the cellar. The few remaining hours of the old year were fast disappearing and the
crowd of buyers, intent on securing some small remembrance for those they loved, or more important
gifts with which to welcome the New Year, thronged the store and upper floor.

Kitty made straight for Felix, who was leaning over the low counter, absorbed in the sale of
some old silver. His disappointment over Kling's rebuff regarding Masie's future had been greatly
lightened, relieved by his talk with Father Cruse an hour before, and he had again thrown himself
into his work with a determination to make the last days of the year a success for his employer,--all
the more necessary when he remembered his plans for the child. The customer, an important one,
was trying to make up her mind as to the choice between two pieces, and Felix was evidently
intent on not hurrying her.

He had seen Kitty when she opened the door and approached the counter, had noticed her excitement
when she stopped in front of him, and knew that something out of the ordinary had sent her
to him at this, the busiest part of his own and her day. But his only sign of recognition was
the lift of an eyelid and a slight movement of his hand, the palm turned toward her, a gesture
which told as plainly as could be that, while he was glad to see her--something she was never
in doubt of--the present moment was ill adapted to protracted conversation.

Kitty, however, was not built on diplomatic lines. What she wanted she wanted at once. When
she had something vital to accomplish she went straight at it, and certainly nothing more vital
than her present mission had come her way for weeks.

That the news she carried had something to do with O'Day's happiness, she was convinced, or
Father Cruse would not have been so insistent. Letters to be sent out (Publicity Committee):

1. To Pastor, Superintendent or Teacher:

(a) Announcing the conference, its nature, purpose, etc.

(b) That it is confined to older boys--15 to 20 years--and one adult
leader from each school.

(c) From three to five delegates (Christian boys).

(d) Ask for name of adult leader.

(e) Enclose Postal Card.

2. To Sunday School Adult Leader:

(a) Send plan of conference and details.

(b) Enclose Tentative Program.

(c) Ask for names of boy (Christian)
delegates, setting time limit and enclosing credentials.

(d) Suggest
that leader have a meeting of the delegates before the conference
to consider what the conference may mean to their own local Sunday
school.

3. To Each Delegate:

(a) Send a brief letter with program.

(b)
Emphasize the Christian nature of the conference; that it is for training
and leadership, and that he has been chosen from his school for this
purpose.

(c) Suggest daily prayer as preparation.

V. Leaders' Meeting:

If
possible, arrange for a luncheon or dinner conference for the Sunday
school adult leaders who are at the conference. Talk over the plans,
programs and hopes of the conference.

VI. Follow-Up After Conference:

1.
A Second Leaders' Meeting. (Details at Conference)

2. Local Delegates'
Meeting. (Details at Conference)

BIBLIOGRAPHY ON OLDER BOYS' CONFERENCE

Dunn.--What
the State Boys' Conference Means to the Churches (American Youth,
April, 1911) (.20).

"Come near, Mr. O'Day," she whispered, all her forced humor gone. "I've got the woman who dropped
the sleeve-buttons."

Felix swayed unsteadily, and gripped a chair-back for support.

"You've got--the woman--What do you mean?" he said at last.

"Mike saw her at the police-station. They've put her in a cell."

"Arrested?"

"Yes, for stealin'."

Involuntarily his fingers brushed his throat as if he were choking, but no words came. He had
been all his life accustomed to surprises, some of them appalling, but against this, for the
instant, he had no power to stand.

Kitty stood watching the quivering of his lips and the drawn, strained muscles about his jaw
and neck as his will power whipped them back to their normal shape. She was convinced now of
the truth of her suspicions--the woman was not only interwoven with his past, but was closely
identified with his present anguish.

She drew closer, her voice rising. "Ye'll go with me, won't ye, Mr. Felix?" she went on, hiding
under an assumed indifference all recognition of his struggle. "Father Cruse told me if I ever
come across her again, and there wasn't time to get hold of him, to let ye know."

"I will go anywhere, where Father Cruse thinks I should, Mrs. Cleary--especially in cases of
this kind, where I may be of use." The words had come from between partly closed lips; his
hands were still tightly clinched. "And you say she was arrested--for stealing?"

"Yes, shopliftin', they call it. Poor creatures, they get that miserable and trodden on they
don't know right from wrong!"

Then, as if to give him time in which to recover himself fully, she went on, speaking rapidly:
"And, after all, it may only be a put-up job or a mistake. Half the women they pinch in them
big stores ain't reg'lar thieves. They get tempted, or they can't find anybody to tell 'em
the price o' things, especially these holiday times, and they carry 'em round from counter
to counter, and along comes a store detective and nabs 'em with the goods on 'em. They did
that to me once, over at Cryder's, and I told him I'd knock him down if he put his hand on
me, and somebody come along who knew me, and they was that scared when they found out who I
was that they bowed and scraped like dancin' masters and wanted me to take the skirt along
if I'd say nothin' about it. That might have happened to this poor child--"

"Has Father Cruse seen her?" asked Felix. No word of the recital had reached his ears.

"No--that's why I come to ye."

"And where did you say she was?" He had himself under perfect control again, and might have
been a man bent only on aiding Father Cruse in some charitable work.

"Locked up in the station-house not far from here. It won't take ye ten minutes to get there."

Felix glanced at the big-faced clock, facing the side window of the store.

"Yes, of course I will go, since Father Cruse wishes it. Thank you for bringing his message.
You need not wait."

"Needn't wait! Ye're not goin' one step without me. They'd chuck ye out if ye did, and that's
what they won't do to me if the captain's in his office. Besides, Mike run over a boy, and
Tim Kelsey is up there now standin' bail for him. There's no use goin' unless ye see her. That's
what the Father wanted ye to do, and that ain't easy unless ye've got the run of the station.
So, ye see, I got to go with ye whether ye want me or not, or ye won't get nowheres. I'll wait
till ye get yer hat and coat."

All the way to the station-house, Kitty beside him, Felix was putting into silent words the
thoughts that raced through his mind.

"Barbara arrested as a vulgar thief!" he kept saying over and over. "A woman brought up a lady--with
the best blood of England in her veins--her father a man of distinction! The woman I married!"

Then, as a jagged thread of light breaks away from a centre bolt, illuminating a distant cloud,
a faint ray cheered him. Perhaps the woman was not Barbara. No one had any proof. Father Cruse
had never believed it, and he had only argued himself into thinking that the woman who had
dropped the sleeve-link must be his wife. Until he knew definitely, saw her with his own eyes,
neither would HE believe it, and a certain shame of his own suspicion swept through him like
a flame.

The captain was out when the two reached the station. No railway train or vehicle can keep pace
with his speed. Morning sees him a million miles farther on his way than night reckoned him but
half a day before. And yet, in all of it, he moves by well-defined stages in his journey towards
his destination of maturity.

Today he is individualistic, tomorrow heroic, a little later reflective
and full of thought, but in all of it is progressively active, moving
forward by leaps and bounds.

His needs also increase with his pace, and must be fully and timely
met, if he is to reach symmetrical maturity.

He needs but three things to attain his best: proper sustenance,
unlimited activity, and careful guidance.

Given these three rightly and at the proper time, the quality of his manhood will go beyond our
fondest hope. The sustenance must be in keeping with his years, the activity in line with his
strength, and the guidance adapted to the needs of his spirit--firm, compelling, but not irksome.
In it all the boy is to be encouraged in self-expression, resourcefulness,
and independent manhood.

Such is a partial appreciation of the boy and his wonderful capacities,
a passing glimpse into a treasure house of wealth and possibility.

What now is the Sunday school?

In the days that are past, it was looked upon merely as a weekly meeting of boys and girls. Today
it is regarded as an institution for the releasing of great moral
and religious impulses into life.

Of late there have even crept into its life the names and some of
the methods of our public school system.

Grading and trained teaching have also come into its life to stay;
the modern Sunday school is but little like that of a decade ago,
and the changes are not yet done with.

Some of the innovations will be proved by experience and retained
with modification, while others doubtless will be eliminated as worthless
for the purposes of the Sunday school in its ideals of moral and religious
education.

Improvement, however, is in the school atmosphere.

However, with all the change, past, present and contemplated, the
school proper has but little time for the doing of its work.

Fifty-two sessions a year, of an hour's or an hour and a half's duration at best, fifty-two
or seventy-eight hours a year, only one-third of which is given to Bible study, furnish a meager
opportunity to accomplish its aim.

Compared with twelve hundred hours a year in the public school, or
the twenty-eight hundred hours a year a boy may work, it seems pitifully
small, for the aim of the Sunday school is bigger than the other two.

The Sunday school purposes to fit the boy to play the game in public school and work and life.
It seeks to give him impulses that will help him to keep clean, inside
and outside, to work with other boys in team play, to render Christian
service to his fellows, and to love and worship God as his Father
and Christ as his Saviour.



"She did not. All we could get out of her was that she was English."

Felix bent nearer. "Will you please describe her a little closer? I have a reason for knowing."

The sergeant caught the look of determination, dallied with a tin paper-cutter, bent his head
on one side, and pursed a pair of thick lips. It was a strain on his memory, this recalling
the features of one of a dozen prisoners, but somehow he dared not refuse.

"Well, she was one of the pocket kind of women, small and well put up but light built, you
know. She had blue eyes--big ones--I noticed 'em partic'lar--and about the smallest pair of
feet I ever seen on a girl. She stumbled down-stairs and caught her dress, and I remember they
was about as big as a kid's. That was another thing set me to wondering how she got into a
scrape like this. She could have done a lot better if she had a-wanted to," this last came
with a leer.

Felix clenched his teeth, and drove his nails into the palms of his hands. He would have throttled
the man had he dared.

"Did she make any defense?" he asked, when he had himself under control again.

"No--there warn't no use--she owned up to having pinched it. Not here at the desk, but to Rosenthal's
man who made the charge--that is, she didn't deny it. The stuff was worth $250. That's a felony,
you know."

Kitty saw Felix sway for an instant, and was about to put out a protecting hand when he turned
again to the lieutenant.

"Officer, I do not ask you to break your rules, but I would consider it an especial favor if
you would let me see this woman for a moment--even if you do not permit me to speak to her."

"Well, you can't see her." The reply came with some positiveness and a slight touch of irony.
He had made up his mind now that if the speaker had a pull, he would meet it by keeping strictly
to the regulations.

"Why not?"

"Because she ain't here. She's in the Tombs by this time, unless somebody went her bail up
at court. They had her in the patrol-wagon as I come on duty."

"The Tombs? That is the city prison, is it not?" Felix asked, hardly conscious of his own question,
absorbed only in one thought--Lady Barbara's degradation.

"That's what it is," answered the lieutenant with a contemptuous glance at Felix, followed
by a curl of the lip. No man had a pull who asked a question like that.

"If I went there, could I see her?"

"When?"

"This afternoon."

"Nothin' doin'--too late. You might work it to-morrow. Step down to headquarters, they'll tell
you. If she's up for felony it means five years and them kind ain't easy to see. Can I do anything
more for you?"

"No," said Felix firmly.

"Well, then, move on, both of you--you can't block up the desk."

Felix turned and left the station-house, Kitty following in silence, her heart torn for the
man beside her. Never had he seemed finer to her than at this moment; never had her own heart
stirred with greater loyalty. But never since she had known him had she seen him so shaken.

"There is nothing more we can do to-day," he said, speaking evenly, almost coldly, when they
reached the corner of the street. "I will see Father Cruse to-night and tell him of your kindness,
and he can decide as to what is to be done. And if you do not mind, I will leave you."

She stood and watched him as he disappeared in the throng. She understood her dismissal and
was not offended. It was not her secret and she had no right to interfere or even to advise.
When he was ready he would tell her. Until that time she would wait with her hands held out.

Felix crossed the street, halted for an instant as if uncertain as to his course, and turned
toward the river. He wanted to be alone, and the crowd gave him a greater sense of isolation.
It was the first time in months that he had tramped the thoroughfares without some definite
object in view. All that was now a thing of the past, never to be revived. His quest was finished.
The interview with the sergeant had ended it all. Every item in his detailed account of the
woman now in the Tombs tallied with Kitty's description of the woman with the sleeve-buttons
and so on, in turn, with the woman who was once his wife.

With this knowledge there flamed up in his heart an uncontrollable anger, fanned to white heat
by hatred of the man who had caused it all. His fingers tightened and his teeth ground together.
That reckoning, he said to himself, would come later, once he got his hands on him. If she
were a thief, Dalton had made her so. If she were an outcast and a menace to society, Dalton
had done it. By what hellish process, he could not divine, knowing Lady Barbara as he did,
but the fact was undeniable.

What then was he to do? Go back to London and leave her, or stay here and fight on in the effort
to save her? SAVE HER! Who could save her? She had stolen the goods; been arrested with them
in her possession; was in the Tombs; and, in a few weeks, would be lost to the world for a
term of years.

He could even now see the vulgar, leering crowd; watch the jury, picked from the streets, file
in and take their seats; hear the few, curt, routine words, cold as bullets, drop from the
lips of the callous judge, the frail, desolate woman deserted by every soul, paying the price
without murmur or protest--glad that the end had come.

And then, with one of those tricks that memory sometimes plays, he saw the altar-rail, where
he had stood beside her--she in her bridal robes, her soft blue eyes turned toward his; he
heard again the responses, "for better or for worse"--"until death do us part," caught the
scent of flowers and the peal of the organ as they turned and walked down the aisle, past the
throng of richly dressed guests.

"Great God!" he choked, worming his way through the crowd, unconscious of his course, unmindful
of his steps, oblivious to passers-by--alone with an agony that scorched his very soul.

Chapter XXII

When Martha, on her return from Stephen's, had climbed the dimly lighted stairs leading to
her apartment, she ran against a thick-set man, in brown clothes and derby hat, seated on the
top step. He had interviewed the faded old wreck who served as janitress and, learning that
Mrs. Munger would be back any minute, had taken this method of being within touching distance
when the good woman unlocked her door. She might decide to leave him outside its panels while
she got in her fine work of hiding the thing he had climbed up three flights of stairs to find.
In that case, a twist of his foot between the door and the jamb would block the game.

"Are you the man who has been waiting for me?" she exclaimed, as the detective's big frame
became discernible under the faint rays from the "Paul Pry" skylight.

"Yes, if you are the woman who is living with Mrs. Stanton." He had risen to his feet and had
moved toward the door.

"I'm Mrs. Munger, if that's who you are looking for, and we live together. She's not back yet,
so the woman down-stairs has just told me. Are you from Rosenthal's?"

"I am." He had edged nearer, his fingers within reach of the knob, his lids narrowing as he
studied her face and movements.

"Did they find the lace--the mantilla?"

"Not as I heard," he answered, noting her anxiety. "That's what brought me down. I thought
maybe you might know something about it."

"Didn't find it?" she sighed. "No, I knew they wouldn't. She was sure she had taken it up night
before last, but I knew she hadn't. Where's my key?--Oh, yes--stand back and get out of my
light so I can find the keyhole. It's dark enough as it is. That's right. Now come inside.
You can wait for her better in here than out on these steps. Look, will you! There's her coffee
just as she left it. She hasn't had a crumb to eat to-day. What do you want to see her about?
The rest of the work? It's in the box there."

Pickert, with a swift, comprehensive glance, summed up the apartment and its contents: the
little table by the window with Lady Barbara's work-basket; the small stove, and pine table
set out with the breakfast things; the cheap chairs; the dresser with its array of china, and
the two bedrooms opening out of the modest interior. Its cleanliness and order impressed him;
so did Martha's unexpected frankness. If she knew anything of the theft, she was an adept at
putting up a bluff.

"When do you expect Mrs. Stanton back?" he began, in an offhand way, stretching his shoulders
as if the long wait on the stairs had stiffened his joints. "That's her name, ain't it?"

"I expected to find her here," she answered, ignoring his inquiry as to Lady Barbara's identity.
"They are keeping her, no doubt, on some new work. She hasn't had any breakfast, and now it's
long past lunch-time. And they didn't find the piece of lace? That's bad! Poor dear, she was
near crazy when she found it was gone!"

Pickert had missed no one of the different expressions of anxiety and tenderness that had crossed
her placid face. "No--it hadn't turned up when I left," he replied; adding, with another stretch,
quite as a matter of course, "she had it all right, didn't she?"

"Had it! Why, she's been nearly a week on it. I helped her all I could, but her eyes gave out."

"Then you would know it again if you saw it?" The stretch was cut short this time.

"Of course I'd know it--don't I tell you I helped her fix it?"

The detective turned suddenly and, with a thrust of his chin, rasped out: "And if one, or both
of you, pawned it somewhere round here, you could remember that, too, couldn't you?"

Martha drew back, her gentle eyes flashing: "Pawned it! What do you mean?"

