"I have not yet heard," he continued, "a single reasonable objection to applying for the Act
of Parliament, of which the draught lies on the table. You must be aware that the extremes
of rude and of civilized society are, in these our days, on the point of approaching to each
other. In the patriarchal period, a man is his own weaver, tailor, butcher, shoemaker, and
so forth; and, in the age of Stock-companies, as the present may be called, an individual may
be said, in one sense, to exercise the same plurality of trades. In fact, a man who has dipt
largely into these speculations, may combine his own expenditure with the improvement of his
own income, just like the ingenious hydraulic machine, which, by its very waste, raises its
own supplies of water. Such a person buys his bread from his own Baking Company, his milk and
cheese from his own Dairy Company, takes off a new coat for the benefit of his own Clothing
Company, illuminates his house to advance his own Gas Establishment, and drinks an additional
bottle of wine for the benefit of the General Wine Importation Company, of which he is himself
a member. Every act, which would otherwise be one of mere extravagance, is, to such a person,
seasoned with the odor lucri, and reconciled to prudence. Even if the price of the article
consumed be extravagant, and the quality indifferent, the person, who is in a manner his own
customer, is only imposed upon for his own benefit. Nay, if the Joint-stock Company of Undertakers
shall unite with the Medical Faculty, as proposed by the late facetious Doctor G--, under the
firm of Death and the Doctor, the shareholder might contrive to secure to his heirs a handsome
slice of his own death- bed and funeral expenses. In short, Stock-Companies are the fashion
of the age, and an Incorporating Act will, I think, be particularly useful in bringing back
the body, over whom I have the honour to preside, to a spirit of subordination, highly necessary
to success in every enterprise where joint wisdom, talent, and labour, are to be employed.
It is with regret that I state, that, besides several differences amongst yourselves, I have
not myself for some time been treated with that deference among you which circumstances entitled
me to expect."

"Hinc illa lachryma," muttered Mr. Oldbuck.

"But," continued the Chairman, "I see other gentlemen impatient to deliver their opinions,
and I desire to stand in no man's way. I therefore--my place in this chair forbidding me to
originate the motion--beg some gentleman may move a committee for revising the draught of the
bill now upon the table, and which has been duly circulated among those having interest, and
take the necessary measures to bring it before the House early next session."

There was a short murmur in the meeting, and at length Mr. Oldbuck again rose. "It seems, sir,"
he said, addressing the chair, "that no one present is willing to make the motion you point
at. I am sorry no more qualified person has taken upon him to show any reasons in the contrair,
and that it has fallen on me, as we Scotsmen say, to bell-the-cat with you; anent whilk phrase,
Pitscottie hath a pleasant jest of the great Earl of Angus--"

Here a gentleman whispered to the speaker, "Have a care of Pitscottie" and, Mr. Oldbuck, as
if taking the hint, went on. 

Talbot, upon being transferred to the dominion of Virginia, was confined in the jail of Gloucester
County, in the old town of Gloucester, on the northern bank of York River.

The Council now opened their correspondence with Lord Effingham, demanding the surrender of their
late colleague. On their part, it was marked by a deferential respect, which, it is evident, they
did not feel, and which seems to denote a timid conviction of the favor of Virginia and the disgrace
of Maryland in the personal feelings of the King. It is manifest they were afraid of giving
offence to the lordly governor of the neighboring Province. On the part of Lord Effingham, the
correspondence is cavalier, arrogant, and peremptory.
The Council write deploringly to his Lordship.

Here there was a general clamour, seemingly of approbation, in which the words might be distinguished,
"Needless to think of it"-- "Money thrown away"--"Lost before the committee," &c. &c. &c. But
above the tumult, the voices of two gentlemen, in different corners of the room, answered each
other clear and loud, like the blows of the two figures on Saint Dunstan's clock; and although
the Chairman, in much agitation, endeavoured to silence them, his interruption had only the
effect of cutting their words up into syllables, thus,--

   First Voice. "The Lord Chan--"
   Second Voice. "The Lord Lau--"
   Chairman, (loudly.) "Scandalum magnatum!"
   First Voice. "The Lord Chancel--"
   Second Voice. "The Lord Lauder--"
   Chairman, (louder yet.) "Breach of Privilege!"
   First Voice. "The Lord Chancellor--"
   Second Voice. "My Lord Lauderdale--"
   Chairman, (at the highest pitch of his voice.)
            "Called before the House!"
   Both Voices together. "Will never consent to such a bill."

A general assent seemed to follow this last proposition, which was propounded with as much
emphasis as could be contributed by the united clappers of the whole meeting, joined to those
of the voices already mentioned.

Several persons present seemed to consider the business of the meeting as ended, and were beginning
to handle their hats and canes, with a view to departure, when the Chairman, who had thrown
himself back in his chair, with an air of manifest mortification and displeasure, again drew
himself up, and commanded attention. All stopped, though some shrugged their shoulders, as
if under the predominating influence of a bore. But the tenor of his discourse soon excited
anxious attention.

"I perceive, gentlemen," he said, "that you are like the young birds, who are impatient to
leave their mother's nest--take care your own penfeathers are strong enough to support you;
since, as for my part, I am tired of supporting on my wing such a set of ungrateful gulls.
But it signifies nothing speaking--I will no longer avail myself of such weak ministers as
you--I will discard you--I will unbeget you, as Sir Anthony Absolute says--I will leave you
and your whole hacked stock in trade--your caverns and your castles--your modern antiques,
and your antiquated moderns-- your confusion of times, manners, and circumstances--your properties,
as player-folk say of scenery and dresses--the whole of your exhausted expedients, to the fools
who choose to deal with them. I will vindicate my own fame with my own right hand, without
appealing to such halting assistants,

  'Whom I have used for sport, rather than need.'

--I will lay my foundations better than on quicksands--I will rear my structure of better materials
than painted cards; in a word, I will write HISTORY!"

There was a tumult of surprise, amid which our reporter detected the following expressions:--"The
devil you will!"--"You, my dear sir, you?"--"The old gentleman forgets that he is the greatest
liar since Sir John Mandeville."

"Not the worse historian for that," said Oldbuck, "since history, you know, is half fiction."

"I'll answer for that half being forthcoming" said the former speaker; "but for the scantling
of truth which is necessary after all, Lord help us!--Geoffrey of Monmouth will be Lord Clarendon
to him."

As the confusion began to abate, more than one member of the meeting was seen to touch his
forehead significantly, while Captain Clutterbuck humm'd

  Be by your friends advised,
  Too rash, too hasty, dad,
  Maugre your bolts and wise head,
  The world will think you mad.

In the general start and exclamation which followed this annunciation, Mr. Oldbuck dropped
his snuff-box; and the Scottish rappee, which dispersed itself in consequence, had effects
upon the nasal organs of our reporter, ensconced as he was under the secretary's table, which
occasioned his being discovered and extruded in the illiberal and unhandsome manner we have
mentioned, with threats of farther damage to his nose, ears, and other portions of his body,
on the part especially of Captain Clutterbuck. Undismayed by these threats, which indeed those
of his profession are accustomed to hold at defiance, our young man hovered about the door
of the tavern, but could only bring us the farther intelligence, that the meeting had broken
up in about a quarter of an hour after his expulsion, "in much-admired disorder."

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

   Now in these days were hotte wars upon the Marches of Wales.
   LEWIS'S History.

The Chronicles, from which this narrative is extracted, assure us, that during the long period
when the Welsh princes maintained their independence, the year 1187 was peculiarly marked as
favourable to peace betwixt them and their warlike neighbours, the Lords Marchers, who inhabited
those formidable castles on the frontiers of the ancient British, on the ruins of which the
traveller gazes with wonder. This was the time when Baldwin, Archbishop of Canterbury, accompanied
by the learned Giraldus de Barri, afterwards Bishop of Saint David's, preached the Crusade
from castle to castle, from town to town; awakened the inmost valleys of his native Cambria
with the call to arms for recovery of the Holy Sepulchre; and, while he deprecated the feuds
and wars of Christian men against each other, held out to the martial spirit of the age a general
object of ambition, and a scene of adventure, where the favour of Heaven, as well as earthy
renown, was to reward the successful champions. 

Its absence from the classical literature was a marvel and exception, a phenomenon of the clearest-minded
and most active of races, who thought, but did not contemplate,--whose ideal world consisted only
of simple, but stately legends of bright-limbed gods and heroes. The superior skill of the Anglo-Norman knights, who were engaged in constant inroads
on the Welsh frontier, and who were frequently detaching from it large portions, which they
fortified with castles, thus making good what they had won, was avenged, indeed, but not compensated,
by the furious inroads of the British, who, like the billows of a retiring tide, rolled on
successively, with noise, fury, and devastation; but, on each retreat, yielded ground insensibly
to their invaders.

A union among the native princes might have opposed a strong and permanent barrier to the encroachments
of the strangers; but they were, unhappily, as much at discord among themselves as they were
with the Normans, and were constantly engaged in private war with each other, of which the
common enemy had the sole advantage.

The invitation to the Crusade promised something at least of novelty to a nation peculiarly
ardent in their temper; and it was accepted by many, regardless of the consequences which must
ensue, to the country which they left defenceless. Even the most celebrated enemies of the
Saxon and Norman race laid aside their enmity against the invaders of their country, to enrol
themselves under the banners of the Crusade. 

The fourth line, in which love is the text, would swell into mammoth proportions. New characters
would be especially necessary in this culminating part of the story; and though they should
be "very few," they would long occupy the novelist with their diverse excellencies or villanies,
their rivalries and strategies. It is probable that the complete development of the stanza à
la romance would give a circumstantial history of the maiden from her birth, with glimpses
more or less clear of all the remarkable people who dwelt near or occasionally visited the
springs of Dove. Thus the same conception would become a stanza or
a volume, according as its treatment were lyrical or romantic. The undaunted
resolution and stubborn ferocity of Gwenwyn, descendant of that prince, had long made him beloved
among the "Tall men" or Champions of Wales; and he was enabled, more by the number of those
who served under him, attracted by his reputation, than by the natural strength of his dilapidated
principality, to retaliate the encroachments of the English by the most wasteful inroads.

Yet even Gwenwyn on the present occasion seemed to forget his deeply sworn hatred against his
dangerous neighbours. The Torch of Pengwern (for so Gwenwyn was called, from his frequently
laying the province of Shrewsbury in conflagration) seemed at present to burn as calmly as
a taper in the bower of a lady; and the Wolf of Plinlimmon, another name with which the bards
had graced Gwenwyn, now slumbered as peacefully as the shepherd's dog on the domestic hearth.

But it was not alone the eloquence of Baldwin or of Girald which had lulled into peace a spirit
so restless and fierce. It is true, their exhortations had done more towards it than Gwenwyn's
followers had thought possible. The Archbishop had induced the British Chief to break bread,
and to mingle in silvan sports, with his nearest, and hitherto one of his most determined enemies,
the old Norman warrior Sir Raymond Berenger, who, sometimes beaten, sometimes victorious, but
never subdued, had, in spite of Gwenwyn's hottest incursions, maintained his Castle of Garde
Doloureuse, upon the marches of Wales; a place strong by nature, and well fortified by art,
which the Welsh prince had found it impossible to conquer, either by open force or by stratagem,
and which, remaining with a strong garrison in his rear, often checked his incursions, by rendering
his retreat precarious. On this account, Gwenwyn of Powys-Land had an hundred times vowed the
death of Raymond Berenger, and the demolition of his castle; but the policy of the sagacious
old warrior, and his long experience in all warlike practice, were such as, with the aid of
his more powerful countrymen, enabled him to defy the attempts of his fiery neighbour. If there
was a man, therefore, throughout England, whom Gwenwyn hated more than another, it was Raymond
Berenger; and yet the good Archbishop Baldwin could prevail on the Welsh prince to meet him
as a friend and ally in the cause of the Cross. He even invited Raymond to the autumn festivities
of his Welsh palace, where the old knight, in all honourable courtesy, feasted and hunted for
more than a week in the dominions of his hereditary foe.

To requite this hospitality, Raymond invited the Prince of Powys, with a chosen but limited
train, during the ensuing Christmas, to the Garde Doloureuse, which some antiquaries have endeavoured
to identify with the Castle of Colune, on the river of the same name. But the length of time,
and some geographical difficulties, throw doubts upon this ingenious conjecture.

As the Welshman crossed the drawbridge, he was observed by his faithful bard to shudder with
involuntary emotion; nor did Cadwallon, experienced as he was in life, and well acquainted
with the character of his master, make any doubt that he was at that moment strongly urged
by the apparent opportunity, to seize upon the strong fortress which had been so long the object
of his cupidity, even at the expense of violating his good faith.

Dreading lest the struggle of his master's conscience and his ambition should terminate unfavourably
for his fame, the bard arrested his attention by whispering in their native language, that
"the teeth which bite hardest are those which are out of sight;" and Gwenwyn looking around
him, became aware that, though, only unarmed squires and pages appeared in the courtyard, yet
the towers and battlements connecting them were garnished with archers and men-at-arms.

They proceeded to the banquet, at which Gwenwyn, for the first time, beheld Eveline Berenger,
the sole child of the Norman castellane, the inheritor of his domains and of his supposed wealth,
aged only sixteen, and the most beautiful damsel upon the Welsh marches. Many a spear had already
been shivered in maintenance of her charms; and the gallant Hugo de Lacy, Constable of Chester,
one of the most redoubted warriors of the time, had laid at Eveline's feet the prize which
his chivalry had gained in a great tournament held near that ancient town. Gwenwyn considered
these triumphs as so many additional recommendations to Eveline; her beauty was incontestable,
and she was heiress of the fortress which he so much longed to possess, and which he began
now to think might be acquired by means more smooth than those with which he was in the use
of working out his will.

Again, the hatred which subsisted between the British and their Saxon and Norman invaders;
his long and ill-extinguished feud with this very Raymond Berenger; a general recollection
that alliances between the Welsh and English had rarely been happy; and a consciousness that
the measure which he meditated would be unpopular among his followers, and appear a dereliction
of the systematic principles on which he had hitherto acted, restrained him from speaking his
wishes to Raymond or his daughter. The idea of the rejection of his suit did not for a moment
occur to him; he was convinced he had but to speak his wishes, and that the daughter of a Norman,
castellane, whose rank or power were not of the highest order among the nobles of the frontiers,
must be delighted and honoured by a proposal for allying his family with that of the sovereign
of a hundred mountains.

There was indeed another objection, which in later times would have been of considerable weight--Gwenwyn
was already married. But Brengwain was a childless bride; sovereigns (and among sovereigns
the Welsh prince ranked himself) marry for lineage, and the Pope was not likely to be scrupulous,
where the question was to oblige a prince who had assumed the Cross with such ready zeal, even
although, in fact, his thoughts had been much more on the Garde Doloureuse than on Jerusalem.
In the meanwhile, if Raymond Berenger (as was suspected) was not liberal enough in his opinions
to permit Eveline to hold the temporary rank of concubine, which the manners of Wales warranted
Gwenwyn to offer as an interim, arrangement, he had only to wait for a few months, and sue
for a divorce through the Bishop of Saint David's, or some other intercessor at the Court of Rome.

Agitating these thoughts in his mind, Gwenwyn prolonged his residence at the Castle of Berenger,
from Christmas till Twelfthday; and endured the presence of the Norman cavaliers who resorted
to Raymond's festal halls, although, regarding themselves, in virtue of their rank of knighthood,
equal to the most potent sovereigns, they made small account of the long descent of the Welsh
prince, who, in their eyes, was but the chief of a semibarbarous province; while he, on his
part, considered them little better than a sort of privileged robbers, and with the utmost
difficulty restrained himself from manifesting his open hatred, when he beheld them careering
in the exercises of chivalry, the habitual use of which rendered them such formidable enemies
to his country. At length, the term of feasting was ended, and knight and squire departed from
the castle, which once more assumed the aspect of a solitary and guarded frontier fort.

But the Prince of Powys-Land, while pursuing his sports on his own mountains and valleys, found
that even the abundance of the game, as well as his release from the society of the Norman
chivalry, who affected to treat him as an equal, profited him nothing so long as the light
and beautiful form of Eveline, on her white palfrey, was banished from the train of sportsmen.
In short, he hesitated no longer, but took into his confidence his chaplain, an able and sagacious
man, whose pride was flattered by his patron's communication, and who, besides, saw in the
proposed scheme some contingent advantages for himself and his order. By his counsel, the proceedings
for Gwenwyn's divorce were prosecuted under favourable auspices, and the unfortunate Brengwain
was removed to a nunnery, which perhaps she found a more cheerful habitation than the lonely
retreat in which she had led a neglected life, ever since Gwenwyn had despaired of her bed
being blessed with issue. Father Einion also dealt with the chiefs and elders of the land,
and represented to them the advantage which in future wars they were certain to obtain by the
possession of the Garde Doloureuse, which had for more than a century covered and protected
a considerable tract of country, rendered their advance difficult, and their retreat perilous,
and, in a word, prevented their carrying their incursions as far as the gates of Shrewsbury. She
had many friends around her,--friends devoted to her husband and herself. Amongst these was
Phelim Murray, a cornet of cavalry under the command of Talbot,--a brave, reckless, true-hearted
comrade, who had often shared the hospitality, the adventurous service,
and the sports of his commander.

To Murray I attribute the planning of the enterprise I am now about to relate. He had determined
to rescue his chief from his prison in Virginia. His scheme required the coöperation of Mrs.
Talbot and one of her youngest children,--the pet boy, perhaps, of the family, some two or three
years old,--I imagine, the special favorite of the father. The adventure was a bold one, involving
many hardships and perils. With some difficulty the chaplain prevailed on
his patron to say nothing in this letter upon his temporary plan of concubinage, which he wisely
judged might be considered as an affront both by Eveline and her father. The matter of the
divorce he represented as almost entirely settled, and wound up his letter with a moral application,
in which were many allusions to Vashti, Esther, and Ahasuerus.

Having despatched this letter by a swift and trusty messenger, the British prince opened in
all solemnity the feast of Easter, which had come round during the course of these external
and internal negotiations.

Upon the approaching Holy-tide, to propitiate the minds of his
subjects and vassals, they were invited in large numbers to
partake of a princely festivity at Castell-Coch, or the Red-
Castle, as it was then called, since better known by the name of
Powys-Castle, and in latter times the princely seat of the Duke of
Beaufort. The architectural magnificence of this noble residence
is of a much later period than that of Gwenwyn, whose palace, at
the time we speak of, was a low, long-roofed edifice of red stone,
whence the castle derived its name; while a ditch and palisade
were, in addition to the commanding situation, its most important
defences.
     WELSH POEM.

The feasts of the ancient British princes usually exhibited all the rude splendour and liberal
indulgence of mountain hospitality, and Gwenwyn was, on the present occasion, anxious to purchase
popularity by even an unusual display of profusion; for he was sensible that the alliance which
he meditated might indeed be tolerated, but could not be approved, by his subjects and followers.

The following incident, trifling in itself, confirmed his apprehensions. Passing one evening,
when it was become nearly dark, by the open window of a guard-room, usually occupied by some
few of his most celebrated soldiers, who relieved each other in watching his palace, he heard
Morgan, a man distinguished for strength, courage, and ferocity, say to the companion with
whom he was sitting by the watch-fire, "Gwenwyn is turned to a priest, or a woman! When was
it before these last months, that a follower of his was obliged to gnaw the meat from the bone
so closely, as I am now peeling the morsel which I hold in my hand?" [Footnote: It is said
in Highland tradition, that one of the Macdonalds of the Isles, who had suffered his broadsword
to remain sheathed for some months after his marriage with a beautiful woman, was stirred to
a sudden and furious expedition against the mainland by hearing conversation to the above purpose
among his bodyguard.]

"Wait but awhile," replied his comrade, "till the Norman match be accomplished; and so small
will be the prey we shall then drive from the Saxon churls, that we may be glad to swallow,
like hungry dogs, the very bones themselves."

Gwenwyn heard no more of their conversation; but this was enough to alarm his pride as a soldier,
and his jealousy as a prince. He was sensible, that the people over whom he ruled were at once
fickle in their disposition, impatient of long repose, and full of hatred against their neighbours;
and he almost dreaded the consequences of the inactivity to which a long truce might reduce
them. The risk was now incurred, however; and to display even more than his wonted splendour
and liberality, seemed the best way of reconciling the wavering affections of his subjects.

A Norman would have despised the barbarous magnificence of an entertainment, consisting of
kine and sheep roasted whole, of goat's flesh and deer's flesh seethed in the skins of the
animals themselves; for the Normans piqued themselves on the quality rather than the quantity
of their food, and, eating rather delicately than largely, ridiculed the coarser taste of the
Britons, although the last were in their banquets much more moderate than were the Saxons;
nor would the oceans of Crw and hydromel, which overwhelmed the guests like a deluge, have
made up, in their opinion, for the absence of the more elegant and costly beverage which they
had learnt to love in the south of Europe. "AN OWRE TRUE TALE."

[Concluded.]
CHAPTER VII.

THE OLD CITY.

Let me now once more shift the scene.
In the summer of 1684, the peaceful little port of St. Mary's was
visited by a phenomenon of rare occurrence in those days.

