Poor Marie herself little heeded the cold fresh air, but she was glad to avail herself of any
means by which she might hide her face.  When Madame Bauche sought her out in her own little
room, and with a smiling face and kind kiss bade her go to the grotto, she knew, or fancied
that she knew that it was all over.

"He will tell you all the truth,--how it all is," said La Mere.  "We will do all we can, you
know, to make you happy, Marie.  But you must remember what Monsieur le Cure told us the other
day.  In this vale of tears we cannot have everything; as we shall have some day, when our
poor wicked souls have been purged of all their wickedness.  Now go, dear, and take your cloak."

"Yes, maman."

"And Adolphe will come to you.  And try and behave well, like a sensible girl."

"Yes, maman,"--and so she went, bearing on her brow another sacrificial kiss--and bearing in
her heart such an unutterable load of woe!

Adolphe had gone out of the house before her; but standing in the stable yard, well within
the gate so that she should not see him, he watched her slowly crossing the bridge and mounting
the first flight of the steps.  He had often seen her tripping up those stairs, and had, almost
as often, followed her with his quicker feet.  And she, when she would hear him, would run;
and then he would catch her breathless at the top, and steal kisses from her when all power
of refusing them had been robbed from her by her efforts at escape. There was no such running
now, no such following, no thought of such kisses.

As for him, he would fain have skulked off and shirked the interview had he dared.  But he
did not dare; so he waited there, out of heart, for some ten minutes, speaking a word now and
then to the bath-man, who was standing by, just to show that he was at his ease.  But the bath-man
knew that he was not at his ease.  Such would-be lies as those rarely achieve deception;--are
rarely believed.  And then, at the end of the ten minutes, with steps as slow as Marie's had
been, he also ascended to the grotto.

Marie had watched him from the top, but so that she herself should not be seen.  He however
had not once lifted up his head to look for her; but with eyes turned to the ground had plodded
his way up to the cave.  When he entered she was standing in the middle, with her eyes downcast
and her hands clasped before her.  She had retired some way from the wall, so that no eyes
might possibly see her but those of her false lover.  There she stood when he entered, striving
to stand motionless, but trembling like a leaf in every limb.

It was only when he reached the top step that he made up his mind how he would behave.  Perhaps
after all, the capitaine was right; perhaps she would not mind it.

"Marie," said he, with a voice that attempted to be cheerful; "this is an odd place to meet
in after such a long absence," and he held out his hand to her.  But only his hand!  He offered
her no salute. He did not even kiss her cheek as a brother would have done!  Of the rules of
the outside world it must be remembered that poor Marie knew but little.  He had been a brother
to her before he had become her lover.

But Marie took his hand saying, "Yes, it has been very long."

"And now that I have come back," he went on to say, "it seems that we are all in a confusion
together.  I never knew such a piece of work. However, it is all for the best, I suppose."

"Perhaps so," said Marie, still trembling violently, and still looking upon the ground.  And
then there was silence between them for a minute or so.

"I tell you what it is, Marie," said Adolphe at last, dropping her hand and making a great
effort to get through the work before him. "I am afraid we two have been very foolish.  Don't
you think we have now?  It seems quite clear that we can never get ourselves married. Don't
you see it in that light?"

Marie's head turned round and round with her, but she was not of the fainting order.  She took
three steps backwards and leant against the wall of the cave.  She also was trying to think
how she might best fight her battle.  Was there no chance for her?  Could no eloquence, no
love prevail?  On her own beauty she counted but little; but might not prayers do something,
and a reference to those old vows which had been so frequent, so eager, so solemnly pledged
between them?

"Never get ourselves married!" she said, repeating his words. "Never, Adolphe?  Can we never
be married?"

"Upon my word, my dear girl, I fear not.  You see my mother is so dead against it."

"But we could wait; could we not?"

"Ah, but that's just it, Marie.  We cannot wait.  We must decide now,--to-day.  You see I can
do nothing without money from her--and as for you, you see she won't even let you stay in the
house unless you marry old Campan at once.  He's a very good sort of fellow though, old as
he is.  And if you do marry him, why you see you'll stay here, and have it all your own way
in everything.  As for me, I shall come and see you all from time to time, and shall be able
to push my way as I ought to do."

"Then, Adolphe, you wish me to marry the capitaine?"

"Upon my honour I think it is the best thing you can do; I do indeed."

"Oh, Adolphe!"

"What can I do for you, you know?  Suppose I was to go down to my mother and tell her that
I had decided to keep you myself; what would come of it?  Look at it in that light, Marie."

"She could not turn you out--you her own son!"

"But she would turn you out; and deuced quick, too, I can assure you of that; I can, upon my
honour."

"I should not care that," and she made a motion with her hand to show how indifferent she would
be to such treatment as regarded herself. "Not that--; if I still had the promise of your love."

"But what would you do?"

"I would work.  There are other houses beside that one," and she pointed to the slate roof
of the Bauche establishment.

"And for me--I should not have a penny in the world," said the young man.

She came up to him and took his right hand between both of hers and pressed it warmly, oh,
so warmly.  "You would have my love," said she; "my deepest, warmest best heart's love should
want nothing more, nothing on earth, if I could still have yours."  And she leaned against
his shoulder and looked with all her eyes into his face.

"But, Marie, that's nonsense, you know."

"No, Adolphe, it is not nonsense.  Do not let them teach you so. What does love mean, if it
does not mean that?  Oh, Adolphe, you do love me, you do love me, you do love me?"

"Yes;--I love you," he said slowly;--as though he would not have said it, if he could have
helped it.  And then his arm crept slowly round her waist, as though in that also he could
not help himself.

"And do not I love you?" said the passionate girl.  "Oh, I do, so dearly; with all my heart,
with all my soul.  Adolphe, I so love you, that I cannot give you up.  Have I not sworn to
be yours; sworn, sworn a thousand times?  How can I marry that man!  Oh Adolphe how can you
wish that I should marry him?"  And she clung to him, and looked at him, and besought him with
her eyes.

"I shouldn't wish it;--only--" and then he paused.  It was hard to tell her that he was willing
to sacrifice her to the old man because he wanted money from his mother.

 "Only what!  But Adolphe, do not wish it at all!  Have you not sworn
that I should be your wife?  Look here, look at this;" and she
brought out from her bosom a little charm that he had given her in
return for that cross.  "Did you not kiss that when you swore before
the figure of the Virgin that I should be your wife?  And do you not
remember that I feared to swear too, because your mother was so
angry; and then you made me?  After that, Adolphe!  Oh, Adolphe!
Tell me that I may have some hope.  I will wait; oh, I will wait so
patiently."

He turned himself away from her and walked backwards and forwards uneasily through the grotto.
He did love her;--love her as such men do love sweet, pretty girls.  The warmth of her hand,
the affection of her touch, the pure bright passion of her tear-laden eye had re- awakened
what power of love there was within him.  But what was he to do?  Even if he were willing to
give up the immediate golden hopes which his mother held out to him, how was he to begin, and
then how carry out this work of self-devotion?  Marie would be turned away, and he would be
left a victim in the hands of his mother, and of that stiff, wooden-legged militaire;--a penniless
victim, left to mope about the place without a grain of influence or a morsel of pleasure.

"But what can we do?" he exclaimed again, as he once more met Marie's searching eye. 

Now we shall be able to talk again! &c., &c.

* * * * *

OFF TO MASHER LAND.

(BY OUR OWN GRANDOLPH.)

(THIRD LETTER.--C.)

LANDS-CAPE POLITICS.

Haven't time to send you much information this week, as We,--the firm of Self and Corresponding
Captain,--have had to write rather a heavy packet for the Daily Graphic.

I suppose you will have got Herr Von GERMAN EMPEROR with you by the time you receive this from
yours truly; or His Imperialness may have quitted your,--that is,
our, though I'm here now,--hospitable shores.

À propos of Hospitable Shores, remember me to the most hospitable of all Shores--Captain SHAW--of
the Fire-and-Water Brigade. My companions--"Jolly companions everyone"--the Cautious Captain,
or the Wily WILLIAMS, Doubting Doctor, Energetic Engineer, all well.

Wily WILLIAMS hard at his MS., giving an account of the "agricultural and mineral resources"
of the What-can-the-Matterbeland, "through the instrumentality of the Chartered Company." He's
great at this. Think I shall start new Company--"The Chartered Libertine." If my memory doesn't
fail me, that's a Shakspearian title. But who was the "Chartered Libertine"? I notice these
South-African States are independent of Home Government. 'Pon my word, I fancy W.E.G. was right
about Home Rule. On whose shoulders can the G.O.M.'s mantle fall, without enveloping him in
entire obscurity, except on those of the Leader or the once united, but now fractured quartette
party, "quorum pars magna fui?" I still keep up my Latin, you see. I wasn't sent to Eton for
nothing; nor was any other boy that I've ever heard of.

CAPERS.

No wonder we've had so many dancing parties at the Cape, when all the inhabitants are Capers.
I make this a present to my dear old DRUMMY; he can bring it out
in his new Persian Joe Miller.

Cheeky little street-boys give you Capers' sauce. They can lead you a pretty dance if you chivy
them.

AMUSEMENTS OF THE BOERS.

To-day came across a Peep-Boer-Show.

Seen it all before.

Also a kind of Punch-and-Judy performance going on, translated into South-African dialect.
There was not a paying public to witness it; and, with all my desire and with every intention
to encourage native talent, I was compelled to turn away, "more in sorrow than in anger," (SHAKSPEARE
again--Hamlet's Ghost, I think,) when the pipe-and-drummer man came to me for a contribution.
Not a penny in my pocket.

"I will reimburse thee nobly," said I, "on my return from the Mine-land." He quoted some line
or other, which I did not catch, and gave the name of the writer,
one "WALKER," as his authority. WALKER is associated in my mind with
an English Dictionary, but, though it has been much added to in recent
years, I doubt whether the words the Showman used on this occasion
can be found in my pocket edition, or in any other edition of that
excellent and trustworthy compilation.

CHANGE OF HAIR.

Called at
native barber's to-day. Gave him no instructions. Thought of course
he was going to cut it; and so fell asleep. I almost always fall asleep
when under the mesmeric influence of a capillary administrator. I
should like him to keep on doing it; cut and comb again. So soothing!
Woke up and found myself--like this.  Now that she thirsted for the touch of his lip upon her check, it was
denied to her.  He did as she bade him; he went down, slowly loitering, by himself; and in
about half an hour she followed him, and unobserved crept to her chamber.

Again we will pass over what took place between the mother and the son; but late in that evening,
after the guests had gone to bed, Marie received a message, desiring her to wait on Madame
Bauche in a small salon which looked out from one end of the house.  It was intended as a private
sitting-room should any special stranger arrive who required such accommodation, and therefore
was but seldom used. Here she found La Mere Bauche sitting in an arm-chair behind a small table
on which stood two candles; and on a sofa against the wall sat Adolphe.  The capitaine was
not in the room.

"Shut the door, Marie, and come in and sit down," said Madame Bauche. It was easy to understand
from the tone of her voice that she was angry and stern, in an unbending mood, and resolved
to carry out to the very letter all the threats conveyed by those terrible spectacles.

Marie did as she was bid.  She closed the door and sat down on the chair that was nearest to her.

"Marie," said La Mere Bauche--and the voice sounded fierce in the poor girl's ears, and an
angry fire glimmered through the green glasses--"what is all this about that I hear?  Do you
dare to say that you hold my son bound to marry you?"  And then the august mother paused for
an answer.

But Marie had no answer to give.  See looked suppliantly towards her lover, as though beseeching
him to carry on the fight for her.  But if she could not do battle for herself, certainly he
could not do it for her.  What little amount of fighting he had had in him, had been thoroughly
vanquished before her arrival.

"I will have an answer, and that immediately," said Madame Bauche. "I am not going to be betrayed
into ignominy and disgrace by the object of my own charity.  Who picked you out of the gutter,
miss, and brought you up and fed you, when you would otherwise have gone to the foundling?
And this is your gratitude for it all?  You are not satisfied with being fed and clothed and
cherished by me, but you must rob me of my son!  Know this then, Adolphe shall never marry
a child of charity such as you are."

Marie sat still, stunned by the harshness of these words.  La Mere Bauche had often scolded
her; indeed, she was given to much scolding; but she had scolded her as a mother may scold
a child.  And when this story of Marie's love first reached her ears, she had been very angry;
but her anger had never brought her to such a pass as this. Indeed, Marie had not hitherto
been taught to look at the matter in this light.  No one had heretofore twitted her with eating
the bread of charity.  It had not occurred to her that on this account she was unfit to be
Adolphe's wife.  There, in that valley, they were all so nearly equal, that no idea of her
own inferiority had ever pressed itself upon her mind.  But now--!

When the voice ceased she again looked at him; but it was no longer a beseeching look.  Did
he also altogether scorn her?  That was now the inquiry which her eyes were called upon to
make.  No; she could not say that he did.  It seemed to her that his energies were chiefly
occupied in pulling to pieces the tassel on the sofa cushion.

"And now, miss, let me know at once whether this nonsense is to be over or not," continued
La Mere Bauche; "and I will tell you at once, I am not going to maintain you here, in my house,
to plot against our welfare and happiness.  As Marie Clavert you shall not stay here. Capitaine
Campan is willing to marry you; and as his wife I will keep my word to you, though you little
deserve it.  If you refuse to marry him, you must go.  As to my son, he is there; and he will
tell you now, in my presence, that he altogether declines the honour you propose for him."

And then she ceased, waiting for an answer, drumming the table with a wafer stamp which happened
to be ready to her hand; but Marie said nothing.  Adolphe had been appealed to; but Adolphe
had not yet spoken.

"Well, miss?" said La Mere Bauche

Then Marie rose from her seat, and walking round she touched Adolphe lightly on the shoulder.
"Adolphe," she said, "it is for you to speak now.  I will do as you bid me."

He gave a long sigh, looked first at Marie and then at his mother, shook himself slightly,
and then spoke:  "Upon my word, Marie, I think mother is right.  It would never do for us to
marry; it would not indeed."

"Then it is decided," said Marie, returning to her chair.

"And you will marry the capitaine?" said La Mere Bauche.

Marie merely bowed her head in token of acquiescence.  "Then we are friends again.  Come here,
Marie, and kiss me.  You must know that it is my duty to take care of my own son.  But I don't
want to be angry with you if I can help it; I don't indeed. "Talk about tu quoques, there's one
for you!"

"Oh, as for that," rejoined the Red Queen, sniffing, "try another subtraction sum! Take a Grand
Old Leader from a 'Party' of discredited 'Items,' and what would remain?"

"Why, a Policy, of course," replied the White Queen. "And another Leader," she added, sotto voce.
"Here's another for you," she pursued, aloud. "Take a Liberal-Unionist
Tail from a Radical 'Rat,' what would remain then?"

"I suppose you
think nothing would remain," sneered the Red Queen.

Nor must my readers be too severe on Madame Bauche.  She had already done much for Marie Clavert;
and when she found herself once more by her own bedside, she prayed to be forgiven for the
cruelty which she felt that she had shown to the orphan.  But in making this prayer, with her
favourite crucifix in her hand and the little image of the Virgin before her, she pleaded her
duty to her son.  Was it not right, she asked the Virgin, that she should save her son from
a bad marriage?  And then she promised ever so much of recompense, both to the Virgin and to
Marie; a new trousseau for each, with candles to the Virgin, with a gold watch and chain for
Marie, as soon as she should be Marie Campan.  She had been cruel; she acknowledged it. But
at such a crisis was it not defensible?  And then the recompense should be so full!

But there was one other meeting that night, very short indeed, but not the less significant.
Not long after they had all separated, just so long as to allow of the house being quiet, Adolphe,
still sitting in his room, meditating on what the day had done for him, heard a low tap at
his door.  "Come in," he said, as men always do say; and Marie opening the door, stood just
within the verge of his chamber.  She had on her countenance neither the soft look of entreating
love which she had worn up there in the grotto, nor did she appear crushed and subdued as she
had done before his mother. She carried her head somewhat more erect than usual, and looked
boldly out at him from under her soft eyelashes.  There might still be love there, but it was
love proudly resolving to quell itself. Adolphe, as he looked at her, felt that he was afraid
of her.

"It is all over then between us, M. Adolphe?" she said.

"Well, yes.  Don't you think it had better be so, eh, Marie?"

"And this is the meaning of oaths and vows, sworn to each other so sacredly?"

"But, Marie, you heard what my mother said."

"Oh, sir!  I have not come to ask you again to love me.  Oh no!  I am not thinking of that.
But this, this would be a lie if I kept it now; it would choke me if I wore it as that man's
wife.  Take it back;" and she tendered to him the little charm which she had always worn round
her neck since he had given it to her.  He took it abstractedly, without thinking what he did,
and placed it on his dressing-table.

"And you," she continued, "can you still keep that cross?  Oh, no! you must give me back that.
It would remind you too often of vows that were untrue."

"Marie," he said, "do not be so harsh to me."

"Harsh!" said she, "no; there has been enough of harshness.  I would not be harsh to you, Adolphe.
But give me the cross; it would prove a curse to you if you kept it."

He then opened a little box which stood upon the table, and taking out the cross gave it to her.

"And now good-bye," she said.  "We shall have but little more to say to each other.  I know
this now, that I was wrong ever to have loved you.  I should have been to you as one of the
other poor girls in the house.  But, oh! how was I to help it?"  To this he made no answer,
and she, closing the door softly, went back to her chamber.  And thus ended the first day of
Adolphe Bauche's return to his own house.

On the next morning the capitaine and Marie were formally betrothed. This was done with some
little ceremony, in the presence of all the guests who were staying at the establishment, and
with all manner of gracious acknowledgments of Marie's virtues.  It seemed as though La Mere
Bauche could not be courteous enough to her.  There was no more talk of her being a child of
charity; no more allusion now to the gutter.  La Mere Bauche with her own hand brought her
cake with a glass of wine after her betrothal was over, and patted her on the cheek, and called
her her dear little Marie Campan.  And then the capitaine was made up of infinite politeness,
and the guests all wished her joy, and the servants of the house began to perceive that she
was a person entitled to respect.  How different was all this from that harsh attack that was
made on her the preceding evening! Only Adolphe,--he alone kept aloof.  Though he was present
there he said nothing.  He, and he only, offered no congratulations.

In the midst of all these gala doings Marie herself said little or nothing.  La Mere Bauche
perceived this, but she forgave it.  Angrily as she had expressed herself at the idea of Marie's
daring to love her son, she had still acknowledged within her own heart that such love had
been natural.  She could feel no pity for Marie as long as Adolphe was in danger; but now she
knew how to pity her.  So Marie was still petted and still encouraged, though she went through
the day's work sullenly and in silence.

As to the capitaine it was all one to him.  He was a man of the world.  He did not expect that
he should really be preferred, con amore, to a young fellow like Adolphe.  But he did expect
that Marie, like other girls, would do as she was bid; and that in a few days she would regain
her temper and be reconciled to her life.

And then the marriage was fixed for a very early day; for as La Mere said, "What was the use
of waiting?  All their minds were made up now, and therefore the sooner the two were married
the better.  Did not the capitaine think so?"

The capitaine said that he did think so.

And then Marie was asked.  It was all one to her, she said.  Whatever Maman Bauche liked, that
she would do; only she would not name a day herself.  Indeed she would neither do nor say anything
herself which tended in any way to a furtherance of these matrimonials.  But then she acquiesced,
quietly enough if not readily, in what other people did and said; and so the marriage was fixed
for the day week after Adolphe's return.

The whole of that week passed much in the same way.  The servants about the place spoke among
themselves of Marie's perverseness, obstinacy, and ingratitude, because she would not look
pleased, or answer Madame Bauche's courtesies with gratitude; but La Mere herself showed no
signs of anger.  Marie had yielded to her, and she required no more.  And she remembered also
the harsh words she had used to gain her purpose; and she reflected on all that Marie had lost.
On these accounts she was forbearing and exacted nothing--nothing but that one sacrifice which
was to be made in accordance to her wishes.

And it was made.  They were married in the great salon, the dining- room, immediately after
breakfast.  Madame Bauche was dressed in a new puce silk dress, and looked very magnificent
on the occasion. She simpered and smiled, and looked gay even in spite of her spectacles; and
as the ceremony was being performed, she held fast clutched in her hand the gold watch and
chain which were intended for Marie as soon as ever the marriage should be completed. 

Next visit to London, bring fewer uniforms and more waterproofs and umbrellas.

* * * * *

* * * * *

IMPERIAL AND OPERATIC.

After considerable calculation as to re-imbursement for present outlay by a consistent course
of future economy, I took a six-guinea stall for the EMPEROR's state visit to the Opera. "Court
dress" being "indispensable," I decided to summon to my aid the well-known amateur theatrical
costumier, DATHAN & Co. DATHAN sees at a glance what I want. He measures me with his eye.
"Co." in waiting is dispatched to bring down two or three Court suits. In less than ten minutes
I am perfectly fitted, that is, in DATHAN's not entirely disinterested but still highly artistic
opinion, with which "Co." unhesitatingly agrees.

For my own part, as a mere lay-figure, I should have preferred the continuations being a trifle less
tight round the knee; also if the coat were a little easier about
the shoulders, and not quite so baggy in the back I should breathe
more freely; and, while we are on the subject, the collar might be
lower, as it is in close proximity to the lobes of my ears and irritatingly
tickles me. The white waistcoat--"well," as "Co.," in the absence
of DATHAN, rapturously observes, "might ha' been made for yer!" "It
might," true: but it certainly wasn't, as it is somewhat long, and
there's a little shyness on the part of the last button but one in
meeting the button-hole with which it ought to be on the best possible
terms.  Had it been a pincushion that had cost
three sous, it would have affected her as much.

And then there was cake and wine and sweetmeats; and after a few minutes Marie disappeared.
For an hour or so the capitaine was taken up with the congratulating of his friends, and with
the efforts necessary to the wearing of his new honours with an air of ease; but after that
time he began to be uneasy because his wife did not come to him.  At two or three in the afternoon
he went to La Mere Bauche to complain.  "This lackadaisical nonsense is no good," he said.
"At any rate it is too late now.  Marie had better come down among us and show herself satisfied
with her husband."

But Madame Bauche took Marie's part.  "You must not be too hard on Marie," she said.  "She
has gone through a good deal this week past, and is very young; whereas, capitaine, you are
not very young."

The capitaine merely shrugged his shoulders.  In the mean time Mere Bauche went up to visit
her protegee in her own room, and came down with a report that she was suffering from a headache.
She could not appear at dinner, Madame Bauche said; but would make one at the little party
which was to be given in the evening.  With this the capitaine was forced to be content.

The dinner therefore went on quietly without her, much as it did on other ordinary days.  And
then there was a little time for vacancy, during which the gentlemen drank their coffee and
smoked their cigars at the cafe, talking over the event that had taken place that morning,
and the ladies brushed their hair and added some ribbon or some brooch to their usual apparel.
Twice during this time did Madame Bauche go up to Marie's room with offers to assist her. 
"Not yet, maman; not quite yet," said Marie piteously through her tears, and then twice did
the green spectacles leave the room, covering eyes which also were not dry.  Ah! what had she
done?  What had she dared to take upon herself to do?  She could not undo it now.

And then it became quite dark in the passages and out of doors, and the guests assembled in
the salon.  La Mere came in and out three or four times, uneasy in her gait and unpleasant
in her aspect, and everybody began to see that things were wrong.  "She is ill, I am afraid,"
said one.  "The excitement has been too much," said a second; "and he is so old," whispered
a third.  And the capitaine stalked about erect on his wooden leg, taking snuff, and striving
to look indifferent; but he also was uneasy in his mind.

Presently La Mere came in again, with a quicker step than before, and whispered something,
first to Adolphe and then to the capitaine, whereupon they both followed her out of the room.

"Not in her chamber," said Adolphe. 

Then she gave her steed a resounding smack, And he bounded off; "Now
Heaven be praised that my school six-shooter I brought!" said she.

"Four barrels I'll keep for the front-rank foes--and the next for
you--and the last for me!"

Soc. Chat. Is it a comic piece she's doing, do you know? Don't think so, I can see somebody smiling.
Sounds rather like SHAKSPEARE, or DICKENS, or one of those fellahs
... Didn't catch what you said.

No Quite impossible to hear oneself speak, isn't it?

Miss F.B.

And ever louder the demons yelled for their pale-faced
prey--but I scorned death's pangs, For I deemed it a doom that was
half delight to die by the hand of LOBELIA BANGS!

"Marie!  Marie!" said La Mere Bauche, in piteous accents; "do come to me; pray do!"

"Hush!" said the capitaine.  "They'll hear you if you call."  He could not endure that the
world should learn that a marriage with him had been so distasteful to Marie Clavert.

"Marie, dear Marie!" called Madame Bauche, louder than before, quite regardless of the capitaine'
s feelings; but no Marie answered.  In her innermost heart now did La Mere Bauche wish that
this cruel marriage had been left undone.

Adolphe was foremost with his lamp, but he hardly dared to look in the spot where he felt that
it was most likely that she should have taken refuge.  How could he meet her again, alone,
in that grotto? Yet he alone of the four was young.  It was clearly for him to ascend.  "Marie,"
he shouted, "are you there?" as he slowly began the long ascent of the steps. 

PROSPECTING POSSIBILITIES.

N.B.--Rather think I am going to call on Queen ZAMBILI this afternoon. Ahem! Do you remember
the ballads of "My heart is true to Poll," and "The King of the Owyhees"?
Again, ahem! "Black Queen to mate in three moves."

"What was that?" asked the capitaine in a hoarse voice.  He made his way half across the little
garden, and he also was within forty or fifty yards of the flat rock.  But Adolphe was unable
to answer him. He had fainted and the lamp had fallen from his hands and rolled to the bottom
of the steps.

But the capitaine, though even his heart was all but quenched within him, had still strength
enough to make his way up to the rock; and there, holding the lantern above his eyes, he saw
all that was left for him to see of his bride.

