Something is known by the general public of the individual consequences of syphilis. It is
known by many, also, that there is such a thing as hereditary syphilis--babies being born alive
but rotted through for life. Further, it is not at all generally known, though the fact is
established, that of the comparatively few survivors to adult life from amongst such babies,
some may transmit the disease even to the third generation. There is a school of so-called
moralists who regard all this as the legitimate and providential punishment for vice, even
though ten innocent be destroyed for one guilty. Such moralists, more loathsome than syphilis
itself, may be left in the gathering gloom to the company of their ghastly creed. Love and
man and woman are going forward to the dawn, and if they inherit from the past no God that
is fit to be their companion, they and the Divine within them will not lose heart.

The public knowledge of syphilis, though far short of the truth, is not merely so inadequate
as that of gonorrh[oe]a.

"No worse than a bad cold" is the kind of lie with which youth is fooled. The disease may sometimes
be little worse than a bad cold in men, though very often it is far more serious; it may kill,
may cause lasting damage to the coverings of the heart and to the joints, and often may prevent
all possibility of future fatherhood.

These evils sink almost into insignificance when compared with the far graver consequences
of gonorrh[oe]a in woman. Our knowledge of this subject is comparatively recent, being necessarily
based upon the discovery of the microbe that causes the disease. Now that it can be identified,
we learn that a vast proportion of the illnesses and disorders peculiar to women have this
cause, and it constantly leads to the operations, now daily carried out in all parts of the
world, which involve opening the body, and all that that may entail. Curable in its early stages
in men, gonorrh[oe]a is scarcely curable in women except by means of a grave abdominal operation,
involving much risk to life and only to be undertaken after much suffering has failed to be
met by less drastic means. The various consequences of gonorrh[oe]a in other parts of the body
may and do occur in women as in men. The whole effect was terribly weird and disconcerting.

Presently I started, as, seemingly out of the darkness beside me,
a man's hand stretched out and took mine. Turning, I found close to
me a tall man with shining black eyes and long black hair and beard.

Of course large numbers of women are infected with these diseases before marriage and apart
from it, but one or both of them constitute the most important of the bridegroom's wedding
presents, in countless cases every year, all over the world. The unfortunate bride falls ill
after marriage; she may be speedily cured; very often she is ill for life, though major surgery
may relieve her; and in a large number of cases she goes forever without children. One need
scarcely refer to the remoter consequences of syphilis to the nervous system, including such
diseases as locomotor ataxia, and general paralysis of the insane; the latter of which is known
to be increasing amongst women. Even in these few words, which convey to the layman no idea
whatever of the pains and horrors, the shocking erosion of beauty, the deformities, the insanities,
incurable blindness of infants, and so forth, that follow these diseases, enough will yet have
been said to indicate the importance of what is to follow. Medical works abound in every civilized
language which, especially as illustrated either by large masses of figures or by photographs
of cases, will far more than justify to the reader everything that has been said.

And now for the whole point of this chapter. We are not here concerned to deal with prostitution
or its possible control. We are dealing with girlhood before marriage and in relation to marriage,
and the plea is Goethe's--for more light. There is no need to horrify or scandalize or disgust
young womanhood, but it is perfectly possible in the right way and at the right time to give
instruction as to certain facts, and whilst quite admitting that there are hosts of other things
which we must desire to teach, I maintain that this also must we do and not leave the others
undone. It is untrue that it is necessary to excite morbid curiosity, that there is the slightest
occasion to give nauseous or suggestive details, or that the most scrupulous reticence in handling
the matter is incompatible with complete efficiency. Such assertions will certainly be made
by those who have done nothing, never will do anything, and desire that nothing shall be done;
they are nothing, let them be treated as nothing.

It is supposed by some that instruction in these matters must be useless because, in point
of fact, imperious instincts will have their way. It is nonsense. Here, as in so many other
cases, the words of Burke are true--Fear is the mother of safety. It is always the tempter's
business to suggest to his victim that there is no danger. Often and often, if convinced there
is danger, and danger of another kind than any he refers to, she will be saved. This may be
less true of young men. In them the racial instinct is stronger, and perhaps a smaller number
will be protected by fear, but no one can seriously doubt that the fear born of knowledge would
certainly protect many young women.

There is also the possible criticism, made by a school of moralists for whom I have nothing
but contempt so entire that I will not attempt to disguise it, who maintain that these are
unworthy motives to which to appeal, and that the good act or the refraining from an evil one,
effected by means of fear, is of no value to God. In the same breath, however, these moralists
will preach the doctrine of hell. We reply that we merely substitute for their doctrine of
hell--which used to be somewhere under the earth, but is now who knows where--the doctrine
of a hell upon the earth, which we wish youth of both sexes to fear; and that if the life of
this world, both present and to come, be thereby served, we bow the knee to no deity whom that
service does not please.

How then should we proceed?

It seems to me that instruction in this matter may well be delayed until the danger is near
at hand. This is not really education for parenthood in the more general sense. That, on the
principles of this book, can scarcely begin too soon; it is, further, something vastly more
than mere instruction, though instruction is one of its instruments. But here what we require
is simply definite instruction to a definite end and in relation to a definite danger. At some
stage or other, before emerging into danger, youth of both sexes must learn the elements of
the physiology of sex, and must be made acquainted with the existence and the possible results
of venereal disease. A father or a teacher may very likely find it almost impossible to speak
to a boy; even though he has screwed his courage up almost to the sticking place, the boy's
bright and innocent eyes disarm him. Unfortunately boys are often less innocent than they look.
There exists far more information among youth of both sexes than we suppose; only it is all
coloured by pernicious and dangerous elements, the fruit of our cowardice and neglect. Let
us confine ourselves to the case of the girl.

Before a girl of the more fortunate classes goes out into society, she must be protected in
some way or another. If she be, for instance, convent bred, or if she come from an ideal home,
it may very well be and often is that she needs no instruction whatever, because she is in
fact already made unapproachable by the tempter. Fortunate indeed is such a girl. But those
forming this well-guarded class are few, and parents and guardians may often be deceived and
assume more than they are entitled to. At any rate, for the vast majority of girls some positive
instruction is necessary. It is the mother who must undertake this responsible and difficult
task before she admits the girl to the perils of the world. Further, by some means or other,
instruction must be afforded for the ever-increasing army of girls who go out to business.
It is to me a never ceasing marvel that loving parents, devoted to their daughters' welfare,
should fail in this cardinal and critical point of duty, so constantly as they do.

Many employers of female labour nowadays show a genuine and effective interest in the welfare
of their employees. As one might expect, this is notably the case with the Quaker manufacturers
of chocolate and cocoa. I have visited the works of one of these firms, and can testify to
the splendidly intelligent and scrupulous care which is taken of the girls' general health,
their eye-sight, their reading, and many aspects of their moral welfare. Beyond this, what was to
come was, so far as I knew, beyond my own control. I had done what I could; the rest must come
from others. I had exactly obeyed my instructions, fulfilled my warranty to the utmost in my
knowledge and power.

It is known by all observers--but it is a very meagre "all"--of the realities of politics that
in Great Britain, at any rate, there is an increase of drinking amongst women and girls. This
is doubtless in considerable measure due to the increase of work in factories, and the greater
liberty enjoyed by adolescence--liberty too often to become enslaved. This bears directly upon
our present subject. In a very large number of cases, the first lapse from self-restraint in
young people of both sexes occurs under the influence of alcohol, the most pre-eminent character
of whose action upon the nervous system is the paralysis of inhibition or control. Not only
is alcohol responsible in this way, but also in any given case it renders infection more probable
for more reasons than one. This abominable thing--in itself the immediate cause of many evils
and, except as a fuel for lifeless machines and for industrial purposes, of no good--is thus
the direct ally of the venereal diseases as of consumption and many more. We must return to
this important subject later: meanwhile let it be noted that the influence of alcohol upon
youth of both sexes greatly favours not only immorality but also venereal disease. The girl,
therefore, who would protect herself directly will avoid this thing, and the girl who desires
that neither she nor her children shall be destroyed after marriage, will exact from the man
she chooses the highest possible standard of conduct in this matter. A friendly critic has
told me that my books would be all very well, but that I have alcohol on the brain, and I am
inclined to reply, Better on the brain than in the brain. But a subject so serious demands
more serious treatment, and the due reply is that there is no human prospect for which I care,
no public advantage to be advocated, no good I know, of which alcohol is not the enemy; no
abomination, physical, mental or moral, individual or social, of which it is not the friend.
Further, words like these will stand on record, and may be remembered when there has been achieved
that slow but irresistible education of public opinion, to which some few have devoted themselves,
and of which the triumph is as certain as the triumph of all truth was in the beginning, is
now, and ever shall be. I thought--though it may have been a mingling of recollection and imagination--that
I could distinguish the outlines of the church; certainly the great altar-screen was dimly visible.
Instinctively I looked up--and thrilled.

This chapter is not yet complete. In many cases it may be read not by the girl who is contemplating
marriage, but by one or both of her parents. If the reader be such an one I here charge him
or her with the solemn responsibility which is theirs whether they realize it or not. You desire
your daughter's welfare; you wish her to be healthy and happy in her married life; perhaps
your heart rejoices at the thought of grand-children; you concern yourself with your prospective
son-in-law's character, with his income and prospects; you wish him to be steady and sober;
you would rather that he came of a family not conspicuous for morbid tendencies. All this is
well and as it should be; yet there is that to be considered which, whilst it is only negative,
and should not have to be considered at all, yet takes precedence of all these other questions.
If the man in question is tainted with either or both of these diseases, he is to be summarily
rejected at any rate until responsible and, one may suggest, at least duplicated medical opinion
has pronounced him cured. Microscopic examination of the blood or otherwise can now pronounce
on this matter with much more definiteness than used to be possible. But even so, there are
possibilities of error, for experts are more and more coming to recognize the existence and
the importance of latent gonorrh[oe]a, devoid of characteristic symptoms but yet liable to
wake in the individual and always dangerous from the point of view of infection. No combination
of advantages is worth the dust in the balance when weighed against either of these diseases
in a prospective son-in-law: infection is not a matter of chance but of certainty or little
short of it. Everything may seem fair and full of promise, yet there may be that in the case
which will wreck all in the present; not to mention destroying the chance of motherhood or
bringing rotten or permanently blinded children into the world.

It follows, therefore, that parents or guardians are guilty of a grave dereliction of duty
if they neglect to satisfy themselves in time on this point. Doubtless, in the great majority
of cases no harm will be done. But in the rest irreparable harm is often done, and the innocent,
ignorant girl who has been betrayed by father and mother and husband alike, may turn upon you
all, perhaps on her death-bed, perhaps with the blasted future in her arms, and say "This is
your doing: behold your deed."

     "But if ye could and would not, oh, what plea,
     Think ye, shall stead you at your trial, when
     The thunder-cloud of witnesses shall loom,
     With Ravished Childhood on the seat of doom
     At the Assizes of Eternity?"

These pages may disgust or offend nine hundred and ninety-nine readers out of a thousand. They
may yet save one girl, and will have justified themselves.

One final word may be added on the relation of this subject to Eugenics, to which this pen
and voice have been for many years devoted. The subject of venereal disease is one of which
we Eugenists, like the rest of the world, fight shy; yet just because the rest of the world
does so, we should not. Nevertheless I mean to see to it that this subject becomes part of
the Eugenic campaign which will yet dominate and mould the future. For surely the present spectacle
has elements in it which would be utterly farcical if they were not so tragic. Here we have
life present and life to come being destroyed for lack of knowledge. These horrible diseases,
ravaging the guilty and the innocent, equally and indifferently, are at present allowed to
do so with scarcely a voice raised against them. Every day husbands infect their wives, who
have no kind of protection or remedy, and the wicked, grinning face of the law looks on, and
says "She is his wife; all is well." If we had courage instead of cowardice--the capital mark
of an age that has no organ voice but many steam whistles--we could accelerate incalculably
the gradual decrease of these diseases. The body of eugenic opinion which is being made and
multiplied might succeed in allying the Church and Medicine and the Law, with splendid and
lasting effect. But we spend thousands of pounds in estimating correlations between hair colour
and conscientiousness, fertility and longevity, stature and the number of domestic servants,
and so forth, meanwhile protesting against too hasty attempts to guide public opinion on these
refined matters; and this tremendous eugenic reform, which awaits the emergence of some courage
somewhere, is left altogether out of account. There was no allusion to the existence of venereal
disease, far and away the most appalling of what I have called dysgenic forces, in any official
eugenic publication until April, 1909, when in the Eugenics Review we dared to make a cautious
and half-ashamed beginning; half-ashamed to stand up against syphilis and gonorrh[oe]a. When
one thinks of the things that we are not ashamed to do, as individuals or as nations, it is
to reflect that perhaps we have "let the tiger die" too utterly, and that just as woman is
ceasing to be a mammal, man is perhaps ceasing to be even a vertebrate. Is there no Archbishop
or Principal of a University or Chief Justice or popular novelist or preacher or omnipotent
editor, boasting a backbone still, who will serve not only his day and generation but all future
days and generations, by devoting himself and his powers to this long-delayed campaign wherein,
if it be but undertaken, success is certain, and reward so glorious?[14]

CHAPTER XVI

ON CHOOSING A HUSBAND

Brief reference was made in a previous chapter to woman's great function of choosing the fathers
of the future. Here we must discuss, at due length, her choice of a companion for life. It
is repeatedly argued, by critics of any new idea, that the eugenist, in his concern for the
race, is blind to the natural interests and needs of the individual; that "we are all to be
married to each other by the police," as an irresponsible jester has declared; that the sanctities
of love are to be profaned or its imperatives defied. Their faces were shrouded in black cowls,
wherein were holes through which I could see dark gleaming eyes. My guide held me tightly by
the hand. This gave me a feeling of security in the touch which helped to retain within my breast
some semblance of calm. There are those whom it
always rejoices to discover what they regard as antinomies and contradictions in Nature, and
they verily prefer to suppose that there is in things this inherent viciousness, which sets
eternal war between one set of obligations, one set of ideals, and another. But Nature is not
made according to the pattern of our misunderstandings.

We have seen that all individuals are constructed by Nature for the future. We are certainly
right to regard them as also ends in themselves, but Nature conceived and fashioned them with
reference to the future. In so far as marriage has a natural sanction and foundation--than
which nothing is more certain--we may therefore expect to discover that the interests of the
individual and of the race are indeed one. In a word, the man who is most worthy to be chosen
as a father of the future is always the most worthy and, in the overwhelming majority of cases,
is also the most individually suitable, to be chosen as a partner and companion for life. Let
the girl choose wisely and well for her own sake and in her own interests. If, indeed, she
does so, the future will be almost invariably safeguarded.

Of course it is to be understood that we are here discussing general principles. Everyone knows
that cases exist, and must continue to exist, where an opposition between the interests of
the race and those of the individual cannot be denied. Some utterly unsuspected hereditary
strain of insanity, for instance, may show itself or be discovered in the ancestry of an individual
to whom a member of the opposite sex has already become devoted. I fully admit the existence
of such exceptions, but it must be insisted that they are exceptions, and that they do not
at all invalidate the general truth that if a girl really chooses the best man, she is choosing
the best father for her children.

It is when the girl chooses for something other than natural quality that the future is liable
to be betrayed. But the point to be insisted upon is that it is far more worth her while to
choose for natural quality than for any other considerations. The argument of this chapter
is that it will not in the long run be worth the girl's while to be beguiled by a man's money,
his position or his prospects, since all of these, without the one thing needful, will ultimately
fail her.

The truth is that very few girls realize how intimate and urgent and inevitable and unintermittent
are the conditions of married life. It requires imagination, of course, to understand these
things without experience. A girl observes a friend who has made what is called "a good marriage";
she goes to the friend's house, and sees her the triumphant mistress of a large establishment;
she sees her friend at the theatre, meets her escorted by her husband at this place and that;
hears of her holidays abroad, covets her jewelry, and she thinks how delightful it must be.
She knows nothing at all of the realities; she sees only externals, and she is misled. Whenever
thus misled she is beguiled into marrying a man for any other reason than that his personal
qualities compel her love, it is her seniors who are to blame for not having enlightened her.
Such a girl shall be enlightened if her eyes fall on these pages.

Happiness does not consist in external things at all. This is not to deny that external things
may largely contribute to happiness if its primal conditions be first satisfied. Failing those
primal conditions, externals are a mockery and a burden. In the case of the vast majority of
married people we see only what they choose that we shall see. Almost everyone is concerned
with keeping up appearances. Things may be and very often are what they appear, but very often
they are not. Any woman of nice feeling is very much concerned to keep up appearances in the
matter of her marriage. A few or none may guess her secret, but whatever we see, it is what
we do not see--no matter how close our friendship may be--that determines the success or failure
of marriage. The moments that really count are just those which we do not witness, and such
moments are many in married life, or should be. If the marriage is what it ought to be, there
is a vital communion, grave and gay, which occupies every available part of life. Only the
persons immediately concerned really know how much of this they have or, if they have it not,
what they have in its place. But we may be well assured that, as every married person knows,
it is the personal qualities that matter everything in this most intimate sphere of life, and
naught else matters at all. When the girl marries so as to become possessed of any and every
kind of external advantage, but there is that in the man which is unlovely or which she, at
any rate, cannot love, her marriage will assuredly be a failure. As we have occasion to observe
every day, she will be glad to jump at any chance of sacrificing all externals, where essentials
thus fail her.

This is only to preach once again the simple doctrine that a girl is to marry a man not for
what he has but for what he is. If, as a eugenist, I am thinking at this time as much of the
future as of the present, the advice is none the less trustworthy. It is certain that this
advice is no less necessary than it ever was. Everyone knows how the standard of luxury has
risen during the last few decades, both in England and in the United States. All history lies
if this be not an evil omen for any civilization. It means, among other things, that more effectively
than ever the forces of suggestion and imitation and social pressure are being brought to bear,
to vitiate the young girl's natural judgment, deceiving her into the supposition that these
things which seem to make other people so happy are the first that must be sought by her. If
only she had the merest inkling of what the doctor and the lawyer and the priest could tell
her about the inner life of many of the owners of these well-groomed and massaged faces! We
hear much of the failure of marriage, but surely the amazing thing is its measure of success
under our careless and irresponsible methods. For happily married people do not require intrigues
nor divorces, nor do they furnish subject matter for scandal. Of weird movements with masses of poisonous
snakes by the medicine-men of the Zuni and Mochi Indians in the far south-west of the Rockies,
beyond the great plains.

Of secret gatherings in vast temples of old Mexico, and by dim altars of forgotten cities in the heart
of great forests in South America.
Of rites of inconceivable horror in the fastnesses of Patagonia.

Of
. . . Here I once more pulled myself up. Such thoughts were no kind
of proper preparation for what I might have to endure. It
is incomprehensible how any observer of contemporary France, its divorce rate and its birth-rate,
can uphold such a contention. On the contrary, we may be more and more convinced that Nature
knows her business, and that marriage, which is a natural institution, should be based, in
each case, upon her indications.

There is need here for a reform which is more radical and fundamental than any that can be
named, just because it deals with our central social institution, and concerns the natural
composition and qualities of the next generation. I mean that reform in education which will
direct itself towards rightly moulding and favouring the worthy choice of each other by young
people, and especially the worthy choice of men by women. It will further come to be seen that
everything which vitiates this choice--as, for instance, the economic dependence of women,
great excess of women in a community, the inheritance of large fortunes--is ultimately to be
condemned on that final ground, if on no other.

But whilst these sociological propositions may be laid down, let us see what can be said in
the present state of things by way of advice to the girl into whose hands this book may fall.
Perhaps it may be permitted to use the more direct form of address.

You may have been told that where poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window.[15]
You may have heard it said that so and so has made a good marriage because her husband has
a large income. You may be inclined to judge the success of marriage by what you see. I warn
you solemnly that the worth or unworth of your marriage, the success or failure of your life
will depend, far more than upon all other things put together, upon the personal qualities
of the man you choose.

If these be not good in themselves, your marriage will fail, certainly; even if they be good
in themselves your marriage will fail, probably, unless they also be nicely adapted to your
own character and tastes and temperament and needs. There are thus two distinct requirements;
the first absolutely cardinal, the second very nearly so. You are utterly wrong if you suppose
that the first of these can be ignored: if your husband is not a worthy man, you are doomed.
And you are almost certainly wrong if you suppose that lack of community in tastes and in interests,
in objects of admiration and adoration does not matter. But let us consider what are the factors
of the man for which a girl does choose.

For what, if it comes to that, does a man choose? It will probably be agreed that, on the whole,
this analysis, which is certainly true in the direction it refers to, is also true in the converse
direction. The girl admires a man for physical qualities, including what may be called the
physical virtues, like energy and courage. She rates highly certain moral attractions, such
as unselfishness and chivalry, but perhaps she attaches far more value to intellectual attractions
than the man does in her case, doubtless because they are more distinctively masculine.

No doubt, in this order of importance both sexes are consulting the eugenic end if they knew
it, as Spencer, indeed, pointed out nearly half a century ago.

But here it will be well to consider and meet a possible criticism. This is none the less necessary
because there is a very common type of mind which listens to the enunciation of principles
not in order to grasp them, but in order to point out exceptions. Such people forget that before
one can profitably observe exceptions to a principle or a natural law it is necessary first
of all to know rightly and wholly what the principle is. Now in this particular case our principle
is that the cause of the future must not be betrayed, and the essential argument of this chapter
is that faithfulness to the cause of the future does not involve, as is commonly supposed,
any denial of the interests of the present, since, as I maintain, he who is best worth choosing
as a partner for life is in general best worth choosing as a father of the future.

Now what one must here reckon with is the existence of individual cases,--much commoner doubtless
in the imagination of critics than in reality, but nevertheless worthy of study--where a man
may gain a woman's love of the real kind and may return it, and yet may be unfit for parenthood.
The converse case is equally likely, but here we are concerned especially with the interests
of the woman. She is, shall we say, a nurse in a sanatorium for consumptives or, to suppose
a case more critical and complicated still, she may herself be a patient in such a sanatorium.
There she meets another patient with whom she falls in love. Now these two may be well fitted
to make each other happy for so long as fate permits, but if the interests of the future are
to be considered they should not become parents. I must not be taken as here assenting to the
old view, dating from a time when nothing was known of the disease, which regards consumption
as hereditary. It is evident that quite apart from that question the couple of whom we are
thinking should not become parents. It is possible that the disease may be completely cured,
and the situation will then be altered. But only too often the patient's life will be much
shortened and children will be left fatherless; they also in certain circumstances will run
a grave risk of being infected by living with consumptive parents. If in the case we are supposing
the woman be also consumptive, it is extremely probable that motherhood on her part would aggravate
and hasten the course of the disease, it being well-known that pregnancy has an extremely unfavourable
influence on consumption in the majority of cases.

Many other parallel cases may be imagined. Woman's love, based perhaps mainly upon the maternal
instinct of tenderness, may be called forth by a man who suffers from, shall we say, hæmophilia
or the bleeding disease. He may be in every way the best of men, worthy to make any woman happy;
but if he becomes the father of a son, it will probably be to inflict great cruelty upon his child.

