In the early stages of development the crystal will begin to cloud over, first becoming dull,
then suffused with milky clouds, among which sparkle a large number of little specks of light
like gold dust in the sunlight. The focus of the eyes is inconstant, the pupil rapidly expanding
and contracting, the crystal at times disappearing entirely in a haze or film which seems to
pass before the eyes. Then the haze will disappear, and the crystal will loom up into full
view again, accompanied by a lapse of the seer into full consciousness. He forgets that he
is seated in this or that room, that such a person is at his right hand, such another at his
left. He forgets that he is gazing into the crystal. He hears nothing, sees nothing, save what
is passing before the eyes of his soul. He loses sight, for the time, even of his own identity.

Therefore, when his vision is suddenly arrested by an apparition, startling in its reality
and instantaneous production, even though hoped for and expected, the reaction is so violent
and rapid that the seer is frequently carried back into the full consciousness of his physical
conditions. Therefore, the qualifications of self-possession and confidence in one's own soul-faculties
have been stated as of primary importance in this domain of research. Excess of joy or fear
at sight of the vision will be fatal to its continuance and to the condition of mind required
for the process of development. This fact must therefore be borne in mind. The importance of
a moderate and sustaining diet in regard to psychic development cannot be too strongly urged.
All overloading of the stomach with indigestible food and addiction to alcoholic drinks tends
to cloud the spiritual perception, It depletes the brain-centres, gives the heart too much
work, and overthrows the equilibrium of the system. It cannot be active in all parts of our
complex constitution at one and the same moment. Hence it follows that when one part of our
nature is active another is dormant as happens in sleeping and waking, dream-life being that
wherein the centre of consciousness hovers between the body and the soul. The constitution
need not be robust, but it should at all events be free from disorder and pain. Some of the
most ethereal natures are associated with a delicate organism, but while the balance is maintained
the soul is free to develop its latent powers.

It is advisable not to sit for crystal reading, or indeed for any order of psychic exercise,
immediately after or before a meal. The body should be at rest, and the mind contented and
tranquil. Again, the attitude of the seer should not be too expectant or over-anxious in regard
to the production of the vision. Let the development take its natural course. Do not force
the young plant in its growth or it will come to a premature end. Take time, as Nature does.
It is a great work, and much patience is needed. The acorn becomes the sturdy oak only because
Nature is contented with small results, because she can afford to wait and is never in a hurry
to see the result of her operations. This is an Eastern saying which voices a fundamental truth.

The vision is produced. The faculty of clairvoyance has become more or less under the control
of the mind. New difficulties arise, and, of these, two will be conspicuous. The first is that
of time-measure, and the other is that of interpretation.

Time-measure is, perhaps, the greatest difficulty encountered by the seer. In our own experience
the foreground, middle distance, and background, mark off the present, the approximate, and
the distant future. In tracing the succession of events, we have found it convenient to think
of time-measure at the outset, bending the sight upon, each month or year separately and in
succession, noting the visions that arise with each in order. And as regards the past or future,
we distinguish between them by an intuitive sense rather than by any other means, and very
rarely is this sense deceived, for it is part of the psychic faculty we had in training.

Therefore, if the vision appears in the foreground and, as it were, at the feet of the seer,
then it may be taken as relating to the present or a quite recent date. In the same way, the
middle distance indicates the near past or future, and the background denotes the more distant
past or future. The other difficulty we have mentioned is that of interpretation of such symbols
as may arise. The following pages will indicate some of the symbols and their meanings. The
rest must be left to the intuition of the seer.

CHAPTER VI.

SYMBOLS

Symbols are thought-forms which convey, by the association of ideas, a definite meaning in
regard to the mind that generates them.

Among the ancients symbols were the original form of record, of communicating ideas, and of
writing. The hieroglyphs of the Egyptians, the word-pictures of the aborigines of Central America,
the ideographic writing of ancient Mongolia, are all forms of symbolic writing, drawn from
natural objects. The Hebrew alphabet, the names of its 22 letters, clearly indicate the nomadic
and simple life of those "dwellers in tents." Thus the names of the letters include such objects
as ox, tent, tent-door, tent-peg, camel, fish, fish-hook, an eye, a hand, a basket, a rope-coil,
a head, an ox-goad, water, etc. From the combination of these simple forms the words are constructed.
Thus the word used to signify "knowledge" is derived from three letters, Yod, Daleth, Oin,
which mean a hand, a door, an eye. The hand denotes action, power, etc.; the door denotes entering,
initiation, etc.; the eye denotes seeing, vision. Therefore the three ideograph; when combined,
denote "opening the door to see," which is a very graphic way of conveying the idea of acquiring
knowledge. One cannot help seeing the hand of the young Hebrew drawing aside the canvas door
of the tent and peeping in to see what secrets may be learned!

All symbols, therefore, may be translated by reference to the known nature, quality, and uses
of the objects they represent. The moon, when crescent denotes success, increase, and improvement.
When gibbous, it denotes sickness, decadence, losses, and trouble. The sun eclipsed shows death
or ruin of a man; the moon, similarly afflicted, denotes equal danger to a woman. These are
natural interpretations.

Every symbol, however, has a threefold interpretation, and the nature of the inquiry or the
purpose for which the vision is sought must determine the meaning of the symbols. If they refer
to the spiritual world the interpretation must be agreeable to the nature of the spirit, and
similarly if they refer to the intellectual or physical worlds. Thus a pair of scales would
denote Divine Justice in the spiritual sense, judgment in the intellectual sense, and obligation
in the material sense. If the scales were evenly balanced the augury would be good. But if
weighed down on one side it is Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin, "Thou art weighed and found wanting";
it shows a corrupt judgment, a wrong conclusion, an unbalanced mind, failure in one's obligations,
injustice, etc. And if a sword should lie across the scales or be seen overhead, then a speedy
judgment will be meted out.

A ship is a symbol of intercourse, of trading, of voyaging, etc. If in full sail it shows that
the communication with the spiritual world is increasing, that news from far-off lands will
come to hand, that trade will increase, that a voyage will be taken. If aught is written on
the sails it will be an additional source of enlightenment. If the symbol of death be written
there, it shows speedy translation to a far-off country in which the subject will die. That
far-off country may be the spiritual world itself in which case the death would be a natural
one. But if the ship's sails are drooping, then it denotes a falling away of spiritual influx
of intelligence, and of trade. Expected news will not come.

Black bread denotes a famine, and if it be spotted with yellow blotches it shows a plague.
This symbol was seen, with a goat butting at it, in June, 1896. There followed a famine and
plague in India, which country is said to be ruled by the zodiacal sign Capricorn! The symbol
was not deciphered till the event came to throw light upon it.

In similar manner all symbols arising in the crystal may be interpreted by reference to their
known qualities and uses, as well as the associations existing between them and other things,
persons, and places, in the mind of the seer. This dialogue might have gone on much longer if
Dewforth had not just then noticed that his noninformer was sitting on the bottom step of a
long, dark stairway which led up and up into a jungle of lacy girders and shadows above them.

He
did not bother kicking the pear-shaped man. He stepped over him and ran up the stairs two
at a time.

His footsteps rang on the iron stairs and carried through the structure. It sounded like the bells
of a sunken cathedral ringing in the tide.

On the second level there was more light and more air. It was colder. There were loiterers on
the second level too, but these were far from menacing. They clung to things and pressed themselves
against things, and they stared with unfocused eyes at something which had been there before
but was not there now. These men seemed to be wearing greasy fezzes and dark, baggy long underwear
with buttons and vestigial lapels. As he approached them, Dewforth saw that the fezzes were actually
felt hats with the brims atrophied or rotted away, and the funereal long-johns were the weatherbeaten
remains of those suits which are designed for Young Men On The Way Up. As though by tacit agreement
of long standing, these men did not look directly at Dewforth as
he passed, nor he at them.

There was no difficulty about finding a stairway to the next level, but there was a rusty chain
across the entrance.

Dewforth's foot caught in this chain as he stepped over it, and it shattered like a chain of
stale pretzels. There were no more people beyond the second level--none that could be seen.

He soon lost count of levels. Stairs became narrower and more heavily encrusted with birdlime
and rust as he ascended. In some places there were long sweeping
ramps which led to blind sacs or reached out unsupported into space,
and he was forced to retrace his steps. At no time did he look down,
even when it was possible. There were usually high barriers along
the platforms and ramps. These were covered with layers of old advertising
posters which peeled and were torn by the wind, revealing still more
ancient posters underneath. They seemed to have grown there by themselves
like lichen. But this would be beyond the scope and intention of this short treatise.

CHAPTER VII.

SOME EXPERIENCES

The following facts, in connection with predictions made from the Crystal, have come within
the knowledge of the writer, either as personal experiences or in association with others in
which the faculty of clear vision is active. The lady did hear such news, and in February,
1897, a boy was born to the lady's sister in India. The same lady was told that on a certain
date, while travelling, she would meet with an accident to the right leg. She fell between
the platform and the footboard while getting into a train, and suffered severe abrasion of
the right leg, together with a serious muscular strain which laid her up for several days.
Previous to that the lady was to be surprised by some good fortune happening to her son in
connection with papers and a contest. This happened at the time specified. Her son passed his
examination for the military college with honours.

Mrs. H. was consulted by a lady of some ability in a special line of literature. This fact
was not, however, within the knowledge of the seeress. She was told that she would go up a
certain staircase into a dingy room with a roll of something under her arm. She would see a
dark man who was thick-set and of quiet demeanour. The man would take the roll, and it would
be a source of good fortune to her at a later date.

The lady-consultant did so take a certain manuscript rolled up beneath her arm. She went up
the dingy staircase described by the seeress, and saw the man whose description had been given.

The manuscript was transferred from her hand to that of the publisher, for such was the man's
occupation. The manuscript was accepted, and later on was published. So the prediction was
literally fulfilled.

In the first case cited the vision was symbolical, and the interpretation was made by the seer
himself. In the second case the vision was literal, and needed no interpretation. These two
cases will serve for an illustration of the two types of vision.

Mrs. A. was consulted by a lady of the writer's acquaintance in 1893. She was told that she
would not marry the person to whom she was then engaged, but would have to wait till a certain
person, who was described, should come from a foreign country and take her away. This would
happen, it was said, in the month of January, three years later. This event transpired in due
course exactly as predicted, though nothing was further from the probable course of events;
in fact, the lady was not a little irate at the allusion to the breaking off of her then existing
relations, while the idea of marrying a person whom she had never seen, and for whom she could
have no sort of regard, was naturally revolting to one so wholly absorbed as she was at the time.

Mrs. G. consulted the seer on September 27th, 1894. She was told she would have sickness incidental
to the loins and shooting pains in the knees. [A house was seen covered with snow; the trees
were bare.] A removal would be made when the trees were without leaf. [A bird was seen on a
branch without leaf; the bird flies off.] The consultant would be engaged in a dispute concerning
money. [Several hands seen grabbing at a pile of money.]

These events came to pass at the time predicted. It is advisable to note that in the first
instance the symbolical vision is seen; in the second, a literal vision supervenes; and in
the third and fourth cases the vision reverts to the symbolical. Here we have an instance of
the overlapping of the two conditions of the temperament, the active and the passive state
alternating.

As an illustration of the extreme difficulty of interpretation in the normal state of consciousness
a symbol may be cited which was seen in the crystal for Miss X. "A shield, and a lion rampant
thereon, in red." Now this might mean anything. It suggests the armorial bearings of a princely
family. The lion rampant might mean the anger of a person in authority, as the lion is the
avowed king of beasts. Its colour, red, and its attitude are naturally expressive of anger.
The shield might be a protection, though little needed by a lion, especially if the assailant
were the fragile Miss X. to whom the vision had reference.

Now observe the interpretation of the seer. "You will hear news from a man of medium height
and fair complexion concerning a foreign country. A letter will come in reference to something
written by you which will be the very best thing that could happen. You will score a great
success." This interpretation, which is quite in line with the fact and which afterwards transpired,
is probably as far removed from all that one might have expected as anything could well be.
But we have to remember that the condition in which the seer voices the interpretation of symbols
seen by him is a psychological one, and no doubt in that state natural symbols take on quite
a different signification to that which they would hold in the normal state of waking consciousness.
How often do dreams have a marked influence upon the dreamer while still asleep; how often
do they assume proportions of magnitude and become pregnant with meaning to the dreamer, only
to dissolve into ridiculous triviality and nonsense as soon as the person awakes! It would
indeed appear that a complete hiatus exists between the visionary and the waking states of
consciousness, so that even the laws of thought undergo a change when the centre of consciousness
is removed from the outer to the inner world of thought and feeling.

The writer has known cases of sickness predicted with remarkable accuracy, the time and the
nature of the sickness being foretold with more or less accuracy. The reception of unexpected
letters and telegrams; their import and consequences; the various changes, voyages, business
negotiations and speculations occurring in the consultants' lives have been foretold by means
of the crystal. Deaths have been foreseen, and even changes in the religious views of the consultant
or his associates.

In one case the writer saw a vision of a public square in which was the effigy of a lamb mounted
upon a pedestal. The lamb was made of solid silver and was mounted on marble. A Catholic priest
came along and pointed at the lamb. Immediately a flash of lightning came from the sky and
struck the effigy, melting off one of its ears.

This was stated to signify that the community to which the consultant belonged would immediately
lose a member by conversion to the Roman Church. By the next mail the consultant learned that
such was the case--an important member of the community having gone over to the Roman Catholics
exactly as predicted.

In another case a man was seen dressed in black and wearing the habit of a judge. He held some
papers in his hands which he was endeavouring to conceal. He appeared unsuccessful in his efforts.
A snake was seen at his feet. It rose up against him. A change took place in the field of the
vision and the same man was seen lying on his death-bed. From this it was predicted that the
man designated by the vision would be guilty of misrepresentation, and would be cut off by
death three years from that time. The prediction was in every respect verified. The same may
be said of cases which manifest the faculty of clear visions while in the hypnotic state, whether
spontaneous or induced. The trance condition frequently manifests this faculty in conjunction
with others, such as clairvoyance or clear-hearing and the sense of psychic touch.

The following instance, which was reported in the Morning Leader of Friday, 14th August, 1896,
is remarkable for its extreme pertinence to the subject under consideration:

"Last month a man named David Thomas, who had for a short time been employed by Lord Windsor
as his estate carpenter, was found shot dead in a lonely spot on the roadside near Fairwater,
a village not far from Cardiff. No trace of the murderer could be found, and no motive has
been supplied for the fell deed.

"David Thomas was, from all accounts, a quiet, peaceable fellow, well liked by his intimates,
and happy in his domestic relations. He was a native of the little fishing village Aberaeron,
in Cardiganshire, but he had lived in Glamorganshire for some years, and had married a respectable
woman, a native of the Vale of Glamorgan. A few months ago he received the appointment of carpenter
on Lord Windsor's estate. He then removed with his family to live in the little village of
St. Fagan's a few miles out of Cardiff. He had hardly settled down there when the tragedy took
place. It happened on a Saturday night. He had given up work early, and had come home to cut
the grass in the little green in front of his cottage, and to tidy up his new home. Early in
the afternoon he seems to have grown tired of the work and went indoors. His wife asked him
to take the children out for a stroll. He made no reply, and his wife, busy in another part
of the house, did not pay much attention to his subsequent movements. She knows, however, that
he washed and went upstairs to put himself tidy, and then went out--without the children.

"He seems to have met a friend on the road, and went for a walk with him. They called at a
public-house, and had a glass or two of beer. Then, about ten o'clock, they parted. Thomas
was quite cheerful, and started for home at a brisk pace. He came presently to a lonely part
of the road. A wayfarer heard a pistol shot and a scream, and presently met a man who was hurrying
away from the direction of the scream, and who wished him a gruff good-night. Two hundred yards
farther on the traveller saw in the dim night the body of a man stretched out on the side of
the road. He fetched assistance: the body was that of David Thomas. He had been shot about
a hundred yards behind, but he had not been killed outright. He had run in terror up the road,
spouting blood as he went, and leaving a ghastly trail behind him.

"But a weird story which is told in the Western Mail of Cardiff serves to lend that touch of
horror to the tale which renders it more thrilling than any story which the most daring novelist
would venture to create.

"A young girl, who is not yet 20, has been in the habit for some time past of attending séances
held by the Cardiff Psychological Society. One night at a séance, while in a state of trance,
she was seized with a strange convulsion. Through her lips came the words:

"'I--WILL--have--my--revenge.'

"'Who are you, friend?' asked the interlocutor.

"'David--Thomas. I--was--shot.'

"This entirely unexpected answer was followed by sensational statements concerning the murder
and the identity of the murderer. Some days after she was taken out to Fairwater--which she
had never before visited--and reenacted in a trance the scene of the murder.

"The story leaked out, and came to the ears of the Western Mail. Doubts were cast at once on
the bôna fides of the girl and the whole story. An offer was made to repeat the experiment
in the presence of two Mail representatives. The offer was accepted, and one night this week,
at ten o'clock, the little party met outside the Railway Inn, where poor David Thomas had had
his last drink.

"A start was made. The medium walked at an easy pace between a male and female friend, whose
arms were linked. The faint outline of the road ahead led always on towards a wall of blackness.

"At last they came near Fairwater. Suddenly the medium spoke:

"'I see a pistol right in front of me--held towards me--it is a shiny one--there it is, held
up--it has a large mouth.'

"Forty yards farther on the medium spoke again: 'Hark! I hear footsteps! I see a man!'

"'Where?'

"'Right in front of us. There he is, creeping along the hedge. He is keeping out of sight.'

"'What is he like? How is he dressed?'

"The medium described her vision very minutely. Her pace increased suddenly; she dragged her
linked companions on with a lurch forward. The farmhouse where she first saw the phantom stranger
was well passed. She was following him, eagerly now.

"A piercing scream came from the girl. A pressman sprang to her side and helped to prevent
her body pitching headlong forward.

"This was at the spot where David Thomas fell at the first shot.

"'O--o--oh!' moaned the medium, twisting her left arm round to the back, to a spot immediately
below the shoulder-blade, as if in intense agony. Then, supported on either side, she staggered
forward.

"A light was struck to see her face. It was the hue of death. Her eyes were turned until the
whites only were visible.

"'Let her go down!'

"Moaning, she was allowed to sink, and lay there prone. Her moans expressed intense agony,
and were like those of a man dying, blood gurgling in the sound; it was scarce conceivable
a woman actually lay there.

"'Speak, friend,' said her interlocutor, and presently came the slow answer, a whisper:

"'David--T-T-Thomas.'

"'What do you want of us, friend?'

"'I--was--shot!' The tones of the voice were those of a man.

"'Who shot you?'

"A name was given.

"'What do you want to do, my friend?'

"Slowly, distinctly, with relentless purpose came the answer:

"'I--will--have--my revenge. He shot me.'

"Then the medium told them where the pistol had been bought by the murderer a year ago under
an assumed name, and where the pistol would be found. All this while the poor girl lay prone
on the roadside under the thin sinister telegraphic pole.

"Gradually she revived. 'Look, look!' she cried, in a voice of horror, 'Look at the blood.'

"'Where?'

"'Here--look! Look here!' indicating spots not visible to any one else. 'Take me away,' she
shuddered, but before her frightened exclamation could be obeyed her body suddenly stiffened.'
He is there!' she said, with a pitiful horror in her tone, but with her face expressionless
and her eyes still white.

"'What do you see?'

"'The ghost.'

"Then the party returned, shaken in mind and surfeited with horrors."

Examples of a similar nature might be multiplied indefinitely, and would but serve to show
what has already been stated as a matter of personal experience among all those in whom the
psychic faculties have attained any degree of development, viz., that the rapport existing
between the human soul and the world of subjective consciousness is capable of being actively
induced by recourse to appropriate means, or cultivated, where it exists to any degree, by
means of the crystal and other accessories, such as the metal disc used in China, or the Shiva-lingam
stones used in India.

The following example of the psychic sense of feeling will serve to show that all the senses,
not that of vision alone, are capable of development under suitable conditions. A contributor
to the Westminster Budget, in December, 1893, sends the following account of the use of the
divining rod for the purpose of spring-finding:

"A few weeks ago took place some operations with the divining rod by Mr. Stears, of Hull, who
was called to Mr. S. Campion's farm at East Heslerton, near Malton, to search for a water supply.
At that time he marked two places near the farmhouse where, he said, the presence of water
was indicated by the rod. Since then Mr. E. Halliday, plumber of Malton, has bored an artesian
well at one of the places indicated, and found a very copious supply of water at a depth of
87 feet, after going through sand, clay, and a bed of what Mr. Halliday says is quartz and
lead ore. Mr. Campion, who was previously without a supply of pure water, is delighted with
the results of the visit of the 'diviner,' and has faith in his power with the rod. Mr. Stears
has since been called in to experiment on several farms on the Birdsall estate of Lord Middleton,
the operations being conducted in the presence of Julia, Lady Middleton, the Hon. Geoffrey
and Mrs. Dawnay, Mr. Persons (Lord Middleton's agent), and others. Other farms were visited,
and Mr. Stears, after employing the rod, indicated the presence of water at each. Mr. Halliday
has also received instructions to make tests at these places, and operations are now in progress.
Mr. Stears has successfully 'divined' for water on two of Mr. Lett's farms in the East Riding,
and also at Amotherby, near Malton; and his success is drawing fresh attention to the 'divining
rod' and its capabilities in the hands of a duly 'inspired' professor. Mr. Stears claims that
he can also discover metals as well as water, and he alleges that not one person in 10,000
can use the rod successfully. His explanation of the power he possesses beyond the ordinary
run of his fellow-men is that it is what he would call 'animal electricity,' because at times,
after using the rod for a long period, he loses his power with it, and only recovers it after
a short rest and refreshment. In the presence of Lady Middleton and the rest of the company
he made several interesting experiments--for instance, standing on a china dish, to show that
china is a non-conducting agent (the rod ceasing to oscillate even when over water); finding
metals hid in the ground, etc."

Mrs. Louise Cotton, writing of the operation itself, says:

"When a sensitive person who has the power of feeling the existence of water or mineral under
the surface of the earth, steps exactly over the course of a spring or running water, or metallic
vein, etc., the piece of wood or other medium used turns in the hands--in most cases upwards
for water and downwards for minerals. The motion varies according to individual temperaments:
in some hands the turning is slow and but slightly felt, or scarcely perceptible by lookers-on;
with others it rotates rapidly, and when held tightly by the thumb, the bark of the branch
or twig often peels off; and, with very susceptible operators. I have seen the rod fly, out
of the hands, or, if very tightly held, break."

As yet, however, the majority of people are wholly oblivious to the fact that such psychic
faculties exist, and even those who possess them, i.e., who have them in something like working
efficiency, are conscious of having but an imperfect control over them.

Probably it is as suggested by Mr. F. H. Myers, these things are, as yet, imperfectly understood. After
he crossed the border Balliol sent to him renouncing his homage. "Has the felon fool done such
folly?" said Edward. "If he will not come to us, we will go to him." He won a decisive victory
over the Scots at Dunbar. Balliol surrendered his crown, and was carried off, never to reappear
in Scotland. Edward set up no more vassal kings. He declared himself to be the immediate king
of Scotland, Balliol having forfeited the crown by treason. The Scottish
nobles did homage to him. Hence, to the casual observer, the erratic
nature of Genius is not distinguishable from some incipent forms of insanity.

These, however, will pass away when the faculty has been brought under control of the mind.

The would-be seer, therefore, must be prepared to pay the price of any success which may attend
his efforts in the direction of inducing clairvoyance by means of the crystal.

"The universe is thine. Take what thou wilt, but pay the price," is the mandate of Nature.
"What shall be the price of this new faculty?" the reader may ask. The answer is the same in
regard to this or any other faculty of the soul: "What is it worth to yourself? That is the
price you must pay."

With this equation in mind the reader is asked to consider seriously the phenomena indicated
in the foregoing pages.

CHAPTER VIII.

DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE OVOIDS AND SHPERES FOR CRYSTAL OR MIRROR VISION

Daylight and artificial light are both equally suitable. A North light is the best suited to
the human eye.

