I asked them if they had gone mad, and if instead of this tempest it would not be better to
reason, and see whether something could not be done.  They declared it was precisely because
nothing could be done against a thing not only resolved on, but executed, declared, and sent
to the Parliament, that they were so furious; that M. le Duc d'Orleans, on the terms he was
with the King, would not dare even to whisper objections; that the Princes of the blood, mere
children as they were, could only tremble; that the Dukes had no means of opposition, and that
the Parliament was reduced to silence and slavery.  Thereupon they set to work to see who could
cry the louder and reviled again, sparing neither things nor persons.

I, also, was in anger, but this racket kept me cool and made me smile. I argued with them and
said, that after all I preferred to see the bastards princes of the blood, capable of succeeding
to the throne, than to see them in the intermediary rank they occupied.  And it is true that
as soon as I had cooled myself, I felt thus.

At last the storm grew calm, and they told me that the Chief-President and the Attorney-General--who,
I knew, had been at Marly very early in the morning at the Chancellor's--had seen the King
in his cabinet soon after he rose, and had brought back the declaration, all prepared. Maisons
must, however, have known this earlier; because when the lackey he sent to me set out from
Paris, those gentlemen could not have returned there.  Our talk led to nothing, and I regained
Marly in all haste, in order that my absence might not be remarked.

Nevertheless it was towards the King's supper hour when I arrived.  I went straight to the
salon, and found it very dejected.  People looked, but scarcely dared to approach each other;
at the most, a sign or a whisper in the ear, as the courtiers brushed by one another, was ventured
out.  I saw the King sit down to table; he seemed to me more haughty than usual, and continually
looked all around.  The news had only been known one hour; everybody was still congealed and
upon his guard.

As soon as the King was seated (he had looked very hard at me in passing) I went straight to
M. du Maine's.  Although the hour was unusual, the doors fell before me; I saw a man, who received
me with joyful surprise, and who, as it were, moved through the air towards me, all lame that
he was.  I said that I came to offer him a sincere compliment, that we (the Dukes) claimed
no precedence over the Princes of the blood; but what we claimed was, that there should be
nobody between the Princes of the blood and us; that as this intermediary rank no longer existed,
we had nothing more to say, but to rejoice that we had no longer to support what was insupportable.
The joy of M. du Maine burst forth at my compliments, and he startled me with a politeness
inspired by the transport of triumph.

But if he was delighted at the declaration of the King, it was far otherwise with the world.
Foreign dukes and princes fumed, but uselessly.  The Court uttered dull murmurs more than could
have been expected.  Paris and the provinces broke out; the Parliament did not keep silent.
Madame de Maintenon, delighted with her work, received the adoration of her familiars.

As for me, I will content myself with but few reflections upon this most monstrous, astounding,
and frightful determination of the King. Not an eye could divine the inhabitant if the surface
of the acorn did not bear the mark of a tiny perforation.

This mark, just visible, is my guide. Its presence tells me that the acorn is inhabited, or at
least that it has been prepared for the reception of the egg; its absence tells me that the acorn
has not yet been appropriated. The elephant-beetle undoubtedly draws the same conclusions.

I see matters from on high, with a comprehensive glance, assisted at will by the magnifying-glass.
I turn the acorn between my fingers for a moment, and the inspection is concluded. The beetle,
investigating the acorn at close quarters, is often obliged to scrutinise practically the entire
surface before detecting the tell-tale spot. Moreover, the welfare of her family demands a
far more careful search than does my curiosity. This is the reason for her prolonged and deliberate
examination.

The search is concluded; the acorn is recognised as unoccupied.

The drill is applied to the surface and rotated for hours; then, very often, the insect departs,
disdaining the result of her work.

Why such protracted efforts? Was the beetle piercing the fruit merely to obtain drink and refreshment?
Was the beak thrust into the depths of the base merely to obtain, from the choicer parts, a
few sips of nutritious sap? Was the whole undertaking merely a matter of personal nourishment?

At
first I believed this to be the solution, though surprised at the display of so much perseverance
rewarded by the merest sip. The behaviour of the males, however, forced me to abandon this
idea. They also possess the long beak, and could readily make such perforations if they wished;
yet I have never seen one take up his stand upon an acorn and work at it with his augur. Then
why this fruitless labour? A mere nothing suffices these abstemious creatures. A superficial operation
performed upon the surface of a tender leaf yields them sufficient sustenance.

If the males, the unoccupied males who have leisure to enjoy the pleasures of the palate, ask no
more than the sap of the leaf, how should the mothers, busied with the affairs of the breeding-season,
find time to waste upon such dearly bought pleasures as the inner juices of the acorn? No, the
acorn is not perforated for the purpose of drinking its juices. It is possible that once the
beak is deeply sunk, the female may take a mouthful or two, but it is certain that food and
drink are not the objects in view.

At last I begin to foresee the solution of the problem.

The egg, as I have said, is always at the base of the acorn, in the midst of a soft cottony layer
which is moistened by the sap which oozes from the stalk. The grub, upon hatching out, being
as yet incapable of attacking the firm substance of the cotyledons,
masticates the delicate felt-like layer at the base of the cup and
is nourished by its juices.

But as the acorn matures this layer becomes
more solid in its consistency. The soft tissues harden; the moist
tissues dry up. There is a period during which the acorn fulfils to
perfection the conditions most conducive to the welfare of the grub.
At an earlier period matters would not have reached the desired stage;
at a later period the acorn would be too mature.  Never, since he entered the world, had
he become really familiar with any one but her; it has been seen elsewhere to what extent.
Nothing could fill up this great void: The bitterness of being deprived of her augmented, because
he could find no diversion.  This unfortunate state made him seek relief everywhere in abandoning
himself more and more to Madame de Maintenon and M. du Maine.

They soon managed to obtain possession of him, as it were, entirely; leaving no art unexhausted
in order to flatter, to amuse, to please, and to interest him.  He was made to believe that
M. du Maine was utterly without ambition; like a good father of a family, solely occupied with
his children, touched with the grandeur of his nearness to the King, simple, frank, upright,
and one who after working at his duties all day, and after giving himself time for prayer and
piety, amused himself in hunting, and drew upon his natural gaiety and cheerfulness, without
knowing anything of the Court, or of what was passing!  Compare this portrait with his real
character, and we shall feel with terror what a rattlesnake was introduced into the King's privacy.

Established thus in the mind and heart of the King, the opportunity seemed ripe for profiting
by precious time that could not last long. Everybody smiled upon the project of M. du Maine
and Madame de Maintenon. They had rendered M. d'Orleans odious in the eyes of the King and
of the whole country, by the most execrable calumnies.  How could he defend himself?  shut
up as the King was, how oppose them?  how interfere with their dark designs?  M. du Maine wished
not only to be made prince of the blood, but to be made guardian of the heir to the throne,
so as to dwarf the power of the Regent as much as possible.  He flattered himself that the
feeling he had excited against M. d'Orleans in the Court, in Paris, and in the provinces would
be powerfully strengthened by dispositions so dishonourable; that he should find himself received
as the guardian and protector of the life of the royal infant, to whom was attached the salvation
of France, of which he would then become the idol; that the independent possession of the young
King, and of his military and civil households, would strengthen with the public applause the
power with which he would be invested in the state by this testament; that the Regent, reviled
and stripped in this manner, not only would be in no condition to dispute anything, but would
be unable to defend himself from any attempts the bastard might afterwards make against him.
M. du Maine wished in fact to take from M. d'Orleans everything, except the name of Regent,
and to divide all the power between himself and his brother. Such was his scheme, that the
King by incredible art was induced to sanction and approve.

But the schemers had tough work before they obtained this success. They found that the King
would not consent to their wishes without much opposition.  They hit upon a devilish plan to
overpower his resistance. Hitherto, they had only been occupied in pleasing him, in amusing
him, in anticipating his wishes, in praising him--let me say the word-- in adoring him.  They
had redoubled their attention, since, by the Dauphine's death, they had become his sole resource.

Not being able now to lead him as they wished, but determined to do so at all cost, they adopted
another system, certain as they were that they could do so with impunity.  Both became serious,
often times dejected, silent, furnishing nothing to the conversation, letting pass what the
King forced himself to say, sometimes not even replying, if it was not a direct interrogation.
In this manner all the leisure hours of the King were rendered dull and empty; his amusements
and diversions were made fatiguing and sad and a weight was cast upon him, which he was the
more unable to bear because it was quite new to him, and he was utterly without means to remove
it.  The few ladies who were admitted to the intimacy of the King knew not what to make of
the change they saw in Madame de Maintenon.  They were duped at first by the plea of illness;
but seeing at last that its duration passed all bounds, that it had no intermission, that her
face announced no malady, that her daily life was in no way deranged, that the King became
as serious and as sad as she, they sounded each other to find out the cause.  Fear, lest it
should be something in which they, unknowingly, were concerned, troubled them; so that they
became even worse company to the King than Madame de Maintenon.

There was no relief for the King.  All his resource was in the commonplace talk of the Comte
de Toulouse, who was not amusing, although ignorant of the plot, and the stories of his valets,
who lost tongue as soon as they perceived that they were not seconded by the Duc du Maine in
his usual manner.  Marechal and all the rest, astonished at the mysterious dejection of the
Duc du Maine, looked at each other without being able to divine the cause.  They saw that the
King was sad and bored; they trembled for his health, but not one of them dared to do anything.
Time ran on, and the dejection of M. du Maine and Madame de Maintenon increased.  This is as
far as the most instructed have ever been able to penetrate.  To describe the interior scenes
that doubtless passed during the long time this state of things lasted, would be to write romance.
Truth demands that we should relate what we know, and admit what we are ignorant of.  I cannot
go farther, therefore, or pierce deeper into the density of these dark mysteries.

What is certain is, that cheerfulness came back all at once, with the same surprise to the
witnesses of it, as the long-continued dejection had caused them, simply because they understood
no more of the end than of the commencement.  The double knowledge did not come to them until
they heard the frightful crash of the thunderbolt which fell upon France, and astonished all
Europe.

To give some idea of the opposition from the King, M. du Maine and Madame de Maintenon had
to overcome, and to show how reluctantly he consented to their wishes, more than one incident
may be brought forward.  Some days before the news transpired, the King, full of the enormity
of what he had just done for his bastards, looked at them in his cabinet, in presence of the
valets, and of D'Antin and D'O, and in a sharp manner, that told of vexation, and with a severe
glance, suddenly thus addressed himself to M. du Maine:

"You have wished it; but know that however great I may make you, and you may be in my lifetime,
you are nothing after me; and it will be for you then to avail yourself of what I have done
for you, if you can."

Everybody present trembled at a thunder-clap so sudden, so little expected, so entirely removed
from the character and custom of the King, and which showed so clearly the extreme ambition
of the Duc du Maine, and the violence he had done to the weakness of the King, who seemed to
reproach himself for it, and to reproach the bastard for his ambition and tyranny.  The consternation
of M. du Maine seemed extreme at this rough sally, which no previous remark had led to.  The
King had made a clean breast of it.  Everybody fixed his eyes upon the floor and held his breath.
The silence was profound for a considerable time: it finished only when the King passed into
his wardrobe.  In his absence everybody breathed again.  The King's heart was full to bursting
with what he had just been made to do; but like a woman who gives birth to two children, he
had at present brought but one into the world, and bore a second of which he must be delivered,
and of which he felt all the pangs without any relief from the suffering the first had caused him.

Again, on Sunday, the 27th August, the Chief-President and the Attorney- General were sent
for by the King.  He was at Versailles.  As soon as they were alone with him, he took from
a drawer, which he unlocked, a large and thick packet, sealed with seven seals (I know not
if by this M. du Maine wished to imitate the mysterious book with Seven Seals, of the Apocalypse,
and so sanctify the packet).  In handing it to them, the King said: "Gentlemen, this is my
will.  No one but myself knows its contents. I commit it to you to keep in the Parliament,
to which I cannot give a greater testimony of my esteem and confidence than by rendering it
the depository of it.  The example of the Kings my predecessors, and that of the will of the
King, my father, do not allow me to be ignorant of what may become of this; but they would
have it; they have tormented me; they have left me no repose, whatever I might say.  Very well!
I have bought my repose.  Here is the will; take it away: come what may of it, at least, I
shall have rest, and shall hear no more about it."

At this last word, that he finished with a dry nod, he turned his back upon them, passed into
another cabinet, and left them both nearly turned into statues.  They looked at each other
frozen by what they had just heard, and still more by what they had just seen in the eyes and
the countenance of the King; and as soon as they had collected their senses, they retired,
and went to Paris.  It was not known until after dinner that the King had made a will and given
it to them.  In proportion as the news spread, consternation filled the Court, while the flatterers,
at bottom as much alarmed as the rest, and as Paris was afterwards, exhausted themselves in
praises and eulogies.

The next day, Monday, the 28th, the Queen of England came from Chaillot, where she almost always
was, to Madame de Maintenon's.  As soon as the King perceived her, "Madame," said he to her,
like a man full of something and angry, "I have made my will; I have been tormented to do it;"
then casting his eyes upon Madame de Maintenon, "I have bought repose; I know the powerlessness
and inutility of it.  We can do all we wish while we live; afterwards we are less than the
meanest.  You have only to see what became of my father's will immediately after his death,
and the wills of so many other Kings.  I know it well; but nevertheless they have wished it;
they gave me no rest nor repose, no calm until it was done; ah, well! then, Madame, it is done;
come what may of it, I shall be no longer tormented."

Words such as these so expressive of the extreme violence suffered by the King, of his long
and obstinate battle before surrendering, of his vexation, and uneasiness, demand the clearest
proofs.  I had them from people who heard them, and would not advance them unless I were perfectly
persuaded of their exactness.

As soon as the Chief-President and the Attorney-General returned to Paris, they sent for some
workmen, whom they led into a tower of the Palace of justice, behind the Buvette, or drinking-place
of the grand chamber and the cabinet of the Chief-President.  They had a big hole made in the
wall of this tower, which is very thick, deposited the testament there, closed up the opening
with an iron door, put an iron grating by way of second door, and then walled all up together.
The door and the grating each had three locks, the same for both; and a different key for each
of the three, which consequently opened each of the two locks, the one in the door and the
one in the grating.  The Chief-President kept one key, the Attorney-General another, and the
Chief-Greffier of the Parliament the third.  The Parliament was assembled and the Chief- President
flattered the members as best he might upon the confidence shown them in entrusting them with
this deposit.

At the same time was presented to the Parliament an edict that the Chief- President and the
Attorney-General had received from the hand of the Chancellor at Versailles the same morning
the King had given them his will, and the edict was registered.  It was very short.  It declared
that the packet committed to the Chief-President and to the Attorney-General contained the
will of the King, by which he had provided for the protection and guardianship of the young
King, and had chosen a Regency council, the dispositions of which--for good reasons he had
not wished to publish; that he wished this deposit should be preserved during his life in the
registry of the Parliament, and that at the moment when it should please God to call him from
the world, all the chambers of the Parliament, all the princes of the royal house, and all
the peers who might be there, should assemble and open the will; and that after it was read,
all its dispositions should be made public and executed, nobody to be permitted to oppose them
in any way.

Notwithstanding all this secrecy, the terms of the will were pretty generally guessed, and
as I have said, the consternation was general. It was the fate of M. du Maine to obtain what
he wished; but always with the maledictions of the public.  This fate did not abandon him now,
and as soon as he felt it, he was overwhelmed, and Madame de Maintenon exasperated, and their
attentions and their care redoubled, to shut up the King, so that the murmurs of the world
should not reach him.  They occupied themselves more than ever to amuse and to please him,
and to fill the air around him with praises, joy, and public adoring at an act so generous
and so grand, and at the same time so wise and so necessary to the maintenance of good order
and tranquillity, which would cause him to reign so gloriously even after his reign.

This consternation was very natural, and is precisely why the Duc du Maine found himself deceived
and troubled by it.  He believed he had prepared everything, smoothed everything, in rendering
M. d'Orleans so suspected and so odious; he had succeeded, but not so much as he imagined.
His desires and his emissaries had exaggerated everything; and he found himself overwhelmed
with astonishment, when instead of the public acclamations with which he had flattered himself
the will would be accompanied, it was precisely the opposite.

It was seen very clearly that the will assuredly could not have been made in favour of M. d'Orleans,
and although public feeling against him had in no way changed, no one was so blind as not to
see that he must be Regent by the incontestable right of his birth; that the dispositions of
the testament could not weaken that right, except by establishing a power that should balance
his; and that thus two parties would be formed in the state the chief of each of which would
be interested in vanquishing the other, everybody being necessitated to join one side or other,
thereby running a thousand risks without any advantage.  The rights of the two disputants were
compared.  In the one they were found sacred, in the other they could not be found at all.
The two persons were compared. Both were found odious, but M. d'Orleans was deemed superior
to M. du Maine.  I speak only of the mass of uninstructed people, and of what presented itself
naturally and of itself.  The better informed had even more cause to arrive at the same decision.

M. d'Orleans was stunned by the blow; he felt that it fell directly upon him, but during the
lifetime of the King he saw no remedy for it. Silence respectful and profound appeared to him
the sole course open; any other would only have led to an increase of precautions.  The King
avoided all discourse with him upon this matter; M. du Maine the same. M. d'Orleans was contented
with a simple approving monosyllable to both, like a courtier who ought not to meddle with
anything; and he avoided conversation upon this subject, even with Madame la Duchesse d'Orleans,
and with anybody else.  I was the sole person to whom he dared to unbosom himself; with the
rest of the world he had an open, an ordinary manner, was on his guard against any discontented
sign, and against the curiosity of all eyes.  The inexpressible abandonment in which he was,
in the midst of the Court, guaranteed him at least from all remarks upon the will.  It was
not until the health of the King grew more menacing that he began to speak and be spoken to
thereon.

As for M. du Maine, despite his good fortune, he was not to be envied At Sceaux, where he lived,
the Duchesse du Maine, his wife, ruined him by her extravagance.  Sceaux was more than ever
the theatre of her follies, and of the shame and embarrassment of her husband, by the crowd
from the Court and the town, which abounded there and laughed at them.  She herself played
there Athalie (assisted by actors and actresses) and other pieces several times a week.  Whole
nights were passed in coteries, games, fetes, illuminations, fireworks, in a word, fancies
and fripperies of every kind and every day.  She revelled in the joy of her new greatness--redoubled
her follies; and the Duc du Maine, who always trembled before her, and who, moreover, feared
that the slightest contradiction would entirely turn her brain, suffered all this, even piteously
doing the honours as often as he could without ceasing in his conduct to the King.

However great might be his joy, whatever the unimaginable greatness to which he had arrived,
he was not tranquil.  Like those tyrants who have usurped by their crimes the sovereign power,
and who fear as so many conspiring enemies all their fallen citizens they have enslaved--he
felt as though seated under that sword that Dionysius, tyrant of Syracuse, suspended by a hair
over his table, above the head of a man whom he placed there because he believed him happy,
and in this manner wished to make him feel what passed unceasingly in himself.  M. du Maine,
who willingly expressed in pleasantry the most serious things, frankly said to his familiars,
that he was "like a louse between two fingernails" (the Princes of the blood and the peers),
by which he could not fail to be cracked if he did not take care!  This reflection troubled
the excess of his pleasure, and that of the greatness and the power to which so many artifices
had elevated him.  He feared the Princes of the blood as soon as they should be of age to feel
the infamy and the danger of the wound he had given them; he feared the Parliament, which even
under his eyes had not been able to dissimulate its indignation at the violence he had committed
against the most holy and the most inviolable laws; he even feared the Dukes so timid are injustice
and tyranny!

CHAPTER LXIX

Let me return to Maisons.  Five days after the King's will had been walled up, in the manner
I have described, he came to me and made a pathetic discourse upon the injustice done to M.
le Duc d'Orleans by this testament, and did all he could to excite me by railing in good set
terms against dispositions intended to add to the power and grandeur of the bastards.

When he had well harangued, I said he had told me nothing new; that I saw the same truths as
he with the same evidence; that the worst thing I found was that there was no remedy.

"No remedy!" he exclaimed, interrupting me, with his sly and cunning laugh; "courage and ability
can always find one for everything, and I am astonished that you, who have both, should have
nothing to suggest while everybody is going to confusion." 

I believe a great many persons who have never felt doubt themselves are unaware of the extent
to which doubt prevails amongst young men especially; and I have seen many instances of this
doubt being--if not removed--shaken to its very foundation by their
witnessing the phenomena of spiritualism.

"Yes, but did it make good consistent Christians of them?" asks one of my excellent simple-minded
objectors. Alas! my experience does not tell me that good consistent Christians are so readily
made. Does our faith--I might have asked--make us the good consistent Christians it ought to
do, and would do perhaps, if we gave it fair play?

So, then, my study of spiritualism had been purely phenomenal. It
was a very sad and serious event which drove me to look deeper. 
I pointed out that to seize by force of arms a public and solemn document, in the midst of
the capital, in despite of all--all law and order, would be to put weapons into the hands of
the enemies of M. le Duc d'Orleans, who assuredly would be justified in crying out against
this outrage, and who would find the whole country disposed to echo their cries.  I said too,
that if in the execution of such an odious scheme a sedition occurred, and blood were shed,
universal hatred and opprobrium would fall upon the head of M, le Duc d'Orleans, and deservedly so.

We carried on our discussion a long time, but Maisons would in no way give up his scheme. 
After leaving me he went to M. le Duc d'Orleans and communicated it to him.  Happily it met
with no success with the Duke, indeed, he was extremely astonished at it; but what astonished
us more was, that Maisons persisted in it up to his death, which preceded by some few days
that of the King, and pressed it upon M. le Duc d'Orleans and myself till his importunity became
persecution.

It was certainly not his fault that I over and over again refused to go to the Grand Chamber
of the Parliament to examine the place, as Maisons wished me to do; I who never went to the
Parliament except for the reception of the peers or when the King was there.  Not being able
to vanquish what he called my obstinacy, Maisons begged me at the least to go and fix myself
upon the Quai de la Megisserie, where so much old iron is sold, and examine from that spot
the tower where the will was; he pointed it out to me; it looked out upon the Quai des Morforidus,
but was behind the buildings on the quai.  What information could be obtained from such a point
of view may be imagined.  I promised to go there, not to stop, and thus awake the attention
of the passers-by, but to pass along and see what was to be seen; adding, that it as simply
out of complaisance to him, and not because I meant to agree in any way to his enterprise.
What is incomprehensible is, that for a whole year Maisons pressed his charming project upon
us.  The worst enemy of M. le Duc d'Orleans could not have devised a more rash and ridiculous
undertaking. I doubt whether many people would have been found in all Paris sufficiently deprived
of sense to fall in with it.  What are we to think then of a Parliamentary President of such
consideration as Maisons had acquired at the Palace of justice, at the Court, in the town,
where he had always passed for a man of intellect, prudent, circumspect, intelligent, capable,
measured?  Was he vile enough, in concert with M. du Maine, to open this gulf beneath our feet,
to push us to our ruin, and by the fall of M. le Duc d'Orleans--the sole prince of the blood
old enough to be Regent--to put M. le Duc du Maine in his place, from which to the crown there
was only one step, as none are ignorant, left to be taken?  It seems by no means impossible:
M. du Maine, that son of darkness, was, judging him by what he had already done, quite capable
of adding this new crime to his long list. 

We got back after making a little détour on account of some gentlemen who were bathing in a very Paradisiacal
way indeed--we actually got back in time to go to church like good Christians; and I do not
think either of us felt much the worse for the hours we had spent in the People's Garden--save
and except the wicked Little Wee Dog!

CHAPTER XIV.

UTILIZING THE YOUNG LADIES.

Time was when it was accepted
as an axiom that young ladies had no object in life but to be ornamental--no
mission but matrimony.  He takes rhubarb twice or thrice, unseasonably; more unseasonably
comes Cardinal de Bissy to him, to talk upon the constitution, and thus hinder the operation
of the rhubarb; his inside seems on fire, but he will not believe himself ill; the progress
of his disease is great in a few hours; the doctors, though soon at their wits' ends, dare
not say so; the malady visibly increases; his whole household is in confusion; he dies, forty-eight
years of age, midst of a crowd of friends, of clients, without the power or leisure to think
for a moment what is going to happen to his soul!

His wife survives him ten or twelve years, opulent, and in consideration, when suddenly she
has an attack of apoplexy in her garden.  Instead of thinking of her state, and profiting by
leisure, she makes light of her illness, has another attack a few days after, and is carried
off on the 5th of May, 1727, in her forty-sixth year, without having had a moment free.

