On October 15, 1785, writs were issued for the election of members to serve in a general assembly.
The province was divided into eight counties, among which were apportioned twenty-six members.
The right to vote was given by Governor Carleton to all males of twenty-one years of age who
had been three months in the province, the object of this very democratic franchise being to
include in the voting list settlers who were clearing their lands, but had not yet received
their grants. The elections were held in November, and lasted for fifteen days. They passed
off without incident, except in the city of St John. There a struggle took place which throws
a great deal of light on the bitterness of social feeling among the Loyalists. The inhabitants
split into two parties, known as the Upper Cove and the Lower Cove. The Upper Cove represented
the aristocratic element, and the Lower Cove the democratic. For some time class feeling had
been growing; it had been aroused by the attempt of fifty-five gentlemen of New York to obtain
for themselves, on account of their social standing and services during the war, grants of
land in Nova Scotia of five thousand acres each; and it had been fanned into flame by the inequality
in the size of the lots granted in St John itself. Unfortunately, among the six Upper Cove
candidates in St John there were two officers of the government, Jonathan Bliss and Ward Chipman;
and thus the struggle took on the appearance of one between government and opposition candidates.
The election was bitterly contested, under the old method of open voting; and as it proceeded
it became clear that the Lower Cove was polling a majority of the votes. The defeat of the
government officers, it was felt, would be such a calamity that at the scrutiny Sheriff Oliver
struck off over eighty votes, and returned the Upper Cove candidates. The election was protested,
but the House of Assembly refused, on a technicality, to upset the election. A strangely ill-worded
and ungrammatical petition to have the assembly dissolved was presented to the governor by
the Lower Cove people, but Governor Carleton refused to interfere, and the Upper Cove candidates
kept their seats. The incident created a great deal of indignation in St John, and Ward Chipman
and Jonathan Bliss were not able for many years to obtain a majority in that riding.

It is evident from these early records that, while there were members of the oldest and most
famous families in British America among the Loyalists of the Thirteen Colonies, the majority
of those who came to Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and especially to Upper Canada, were people
of very humble origin. Of the settlers in Nova Scotia, Governor Parr expressed his regret 'that
there is not a sufficient proportion of men of education and abilities among the present adventurers.'
The election in St John was a sufficient evidence of the strength of the democratic element
there; and their petition to Governor Carleton is a sufficient evidence of their illiteracy.
Some of the settlers assumed pretensions to which they were not entitled. An amusing case is
that of William Newton. This man had been the groom of the Honourable George Hanger, a major
in the British Legion during the war. Having come to Nova Scotia, he began to pay court to
a wealthy widow, and introduced himself to her by affirming 'that he was particularly connected
with the hono'ble Major Hanger, and that his circumstances were rather affluent, having served
in a money-making department, and that he had left a considerable property behind him.' The
widow applied to Edward Winslow, who assured her that Mr Newton had indeed been connected--very
closely--with the Honourable Major Hanger, and that he had left a large property behind him.
'The nuptials were immediately celebrated with great pomp, and Mr Newton is at present,' wrote
Winslow, 'a gentleman of consideration in Nova Scotia.'

During 1785 and subsequent years, the work of settlement went on rapidly in New Brunswick.
There was hardship and privation at first, and up to 1792 some indigent settlers received rations
from the government. But astonishing progress was made. 'The new settlements of the Loyalists,'
wrote Colonel Thomas Dundas, who visited New Brunswick in the winter of 1786-87, 'are in a
thriving way.' Apparently, however, he did not think highly of the industry of the disbanded
soldiers, for he avowed that 'rum and idle habits contracted during the war are much against
them.' But he paid a compliment to the half-pay officers. 'The half-pay provincial officers,'
he wrote, 'are valuable settlers, as they are enabled to live well and improve their lands.'

It took some time for the province to settle down. Many who found their lands disappointing
moved to other parts of the province; and after 1790 numbers went to Upper Canada. But gradually
the settlers adjusted themselves to their environment, and New Brunswick entered on that era
of prosperity which has been hers ever since.

CHAPTER VIII

IN PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

Not many Loyalists found their way to Prince Edward Island, or, as it was called at the time
of the American Revolution, the Island of St John. Probably there were not many more than six
hundred on the island at any one time. But the story of these immigrants forms a chapter in
itself. Elsewhere the refugees were well and loyally treated. In Nova Scotia and Quebec the
English officials strove to the best of their ability, which was perhaps not always great,
to make provision for them. But in Prince Edward Island they were the victims of treachery
and duplicity.

Prince Edward Island was in 1783 owned by a number of large landed proprietors. When it became
known that the British government intended to settle the Loyalists in Nova Scotia, these proprietors
presented a petition to Lord North, declaring their desire to afford asylum to such as would
settle on the island. To this end they offered to resign certain of their lands for colonization,
on condition that the government abated the quit-rents. This petition was favourably received
by the government, and a proclamation was issued promising lands to settlers in Prince Edward
Island on terms similar to those granted to settlers in Nova Scotia and Quebec.

Encouraged by the liberal terms held forth, a number of Loyalists went to the island direct
from New York, and a number went later from Shelburne, disappointed by the prospects there.
In June 1784 a muster of Loyalists on the island was taken, which showed a total of about three
hundred and eighty persons, and during the remainder of the year a couple of hundred went from
Shelburne. At the end of 1784, therefore, it is safe to assume that there were nearly six hundred
on the island, or about one-fifth of the total population.

These refugees found great difficulty in obtaining the grants of land promised to them. They
were allowed to take up their residence on certain lands, being assured that their titles were
secure; and then, after they had cleared the lands, erected buildings, planted orchards, and
made other improvements, they were told that their titles lacked validity, and they were forced
to move. Written title-deeds were withheld on every possible pretext, and when they were granted
they were found to contain onerous conditions out of harmony with the promises made. The object
of the proprietors, in inflicting these persecutions, seems to have been to force the settlers
to become tenants instead of freeholders. Even Colonel Edmund Fanning, the Loyalist lieutenant-governor,
was implicated in this conspiracy. Fanning was one of the proprietors in Township No. 50. The
settlers in this township, being unable to obtain their grants, resolved to send a remonstrance
to the British government, and chose as their representative one of their number who had known
Lord Cornwallis during the war, hoping through him to obtain redress. This agent was on the
point of leaving for England, when news of his intention reached Colonel Fanning. The ensuing
result was as prompt as it was significant: within a week afterwards nearly all the Loyalists
in Township No. 50 had obtained their grants.

Others, however, did not have friends in high places, and were unable to obtain redress. This
article, published in our August issue, has awakened so wide an interest in the community, that
the Editor of THE CONTINENTAL deems it expedient to place before its readers the additional
matter contained in a later edition published in England, where it has circulated by thousands.
We regret that this edition did not arrive in time to appear at large in our August number;
but as it did not, we herewith offer the additional matter so arranged
that our readers will have but little difficulty in fitting it in
its appropriate place.

Addition 1st.--August CONTINENTAL, page 219, after line 23 from the top, viz.: 'and the countrywomen
of the Mother of the Lord,' read:

Mississippi was the first repudiating State; A.G. McNutt, the first repudiating Governor; and
Jefferson Davis, the first repudiating Senator. As another evidence of the incredible extent
to which the public sentiment of that day was debased, I quote the following passage from Governor
McNutt's message of 1840, proposing to repeal the bank charters, and to legalize the forgery
of their notes--'The issuing of paper money, in contravention of
the repealing act, could be effectually checked by the abrogation
of all laws making it penal to forge such paper.' (Sen. Jour. p. 53.)
Surely, nothing, but the fell spirit of slavery, could have dictated
such a sentiment.

Proceed as before.

Page 220 CONTINENTAL, after line 45 from the top, viz.: 'is a constitutional act,' insert:

The supplemental act, we have seen, was not, in the language of the Constitution, a law 'to raise a
loan of money on the credit of the State;' that act had already passed two successive Legislatures,
and was unchanged by the supplemental, which merely modified some of the details of the bank
charter; such was the fact, and such the decree of the inferior court, such was the unanimous
decision of the highest judicial tribunal of the State, to which the final adjudication had been
assigned, by a mandatory provision of the Constitution.

Surely this decision should have settled the question. But it did
not. Jefferson Davis, notwithstanding his professed desire to submit
this question to the final decree of the courts of the State, persisted,
as we have seen, in 1849, in repudiating these bonds, at a period
more than seven years after this decision of 1842, and still persevered,
after the second similar adjudication of 1853. Haldimand lost no time in making
provision for their reception. He established a settlement for them at Machiche, near Three
Rivers, which he placed under the superintendence of a compatriot and a protege of his named
Conrad Gugy. The captains of militia in the neighbourhood were ordered to help build barracks
for the refugees, provisions were secured from the merchants at Three Rivers, and everything
in reason was done to make the unfortunates comfortable. By the autumn of 1778 there were in
Canada, at Machiche and other places, more than one thousand refugees, men, women, and children,
exclusive of those who had enlisted in the regiments. Including the troops, probably no less
than three thousand had found their way to Canada.

With the conclusion of peace came a great rush to the north. The resources of government were
strained to the utmost to provide for the necessities of the thousands who flocked over the
border-line. At Chambly, St Johns, Montreal, Sorel, Machiche, Quebec, officers of government
were stationed to dole out supplies. At Quebec alone in March 1784 one thousand three hundred
and thirty-eight 'friends of government' were being fed at the public expense. At Sorel a settlement
was established similar to that at Machiche. The seigneury of Sorel had been purchased by the
government in 1780 for military purposes, and when the war was over it was turned into a Loyalist
reserve, on which huts were erected and provisions dispensed. In all, there must have been
nearly seven thousand Loyalists in the province of Quebec in the winter of 1783-84.

Complete details are lacking with regard to the temporary encampments in which the Loyalists
were hived; but there are evidences that they were not entirely satisfied with the manner in
which they were looked after. One of the earliest of Canadian county histories, [Footnote:
Dundas, or a Sketch of Canadian History, by James Croil, Montreal, 1861.] a book partly based
on traditionary sources, has some vague tales about the cruelty and malversation practised
by a Frenchman under whom the Loyalists were placed at 'Mishish.' 'Mishish' is obviously a
phonetic spelling of Machiche, and 'the Frenchman' is probably Conrad Gugy. Some letters in
the Dominion Archives point in the same direction. Under date of April 29, the governor's secretary
writes to Stephen De Lancey, the inspector of the Loyalists, referring to 'the uniform discontent
of the Loyalists at Machiche.' The discontent, he explains, is excited by a few ill-disposed
persons. 'The sickness they complain of has been common throughout the province, and should
have lessened rather than increased the consumption of provisions.' A Loyalist who writes to
the governor, putting his complaints on paper, is assured that 'His Excellency is anxious to
do everything in his power for the Loyalists, but if what he can do does not come up to the
expectation of him and those he represents, His Excellency gives the fullest permission to
them to seek redress in such manner as they shall think best.'

What degree of justice there was in the complaints of the refugees it is now difficult to determine.
No doubt some of them were confirmed grumblers, and many of them had what Colonel Christie
called 'unreasonable expectations.' Nothing is more certain than that Sir Frederick Haldimand
spared no effort to accommodate the Loyalists. On the other hand, it would be rash to assert
that in the confusion which then reigned there were no grievances of which they could justly
complain.

In the spring and summer of 1784 the great majority of the refugees within the limits of the
province of Quebec were removed to what was afterwards known as Upper Canada. But some remained,
and swelled the number of the 'old subjects' in the French province. Considerable settlements
were made at two places. One of these was Sorel, where the seigneury that had been bought by
the crown was granted out to the new-comers in lots; the other was in the Gaspe peninsula,
on the shores of the Gulf of St Lawrence and of Chaleur Bay. The seigneury of Sorel was well
peopled, for each grantee received only sixty acres and a town lot, taking the rest of his
allotment in some of the newer settlements. The settlement in the Gaspe peninsula was more
sparse; the chief centre of population was the tiny fishing village of Paspebiac. In addition
to these settlements, some of the exiles took up land on private seigneuries; these, however,
were not many, for the government discouraged the practice, and refused supplies to all who
did not settle on the king's land. At the present time, of all these Loyalist groups in the
province of Quebec scarce a trace remains: they have all been swallowed up in the surrounding
French population.

The Eastern Townships in the province of Quebec were not settled by the United Empire Loyalists.
In 1783 Sir Frederick Haldimand set his face like flint against any attempt on the part of
the Loyalists to settle the lands lying along the Vermont frontier. He feared that a settlement
there would prove a permanent thorn in the flesh of the Americans, and might lead to much trouble
and friction. He wished that these lands should be left unsettled for a time, and that, in
the end, they should be settled by French Canadians 'as an antidote to the restless New England
population.' Some of the more daring Loyalists, in spite of the prohibition of the governor,
ventured to settle on Missisquoi Bay. When the governor heard of it, he sent orders to the
officer commanding at St Johns that they should be removed as soon as the season should admit
of it; and instructions were given that if any other Loyalists settled there, their houses
were to be destroyed. By these drastic means the government kept the Eastern Townships a wilderness
until after 1791, when the townships were granted out in free and common socage, and American
settlers began to flock in. But, as will be explained, these later settlers have no just claim
to the appellation of United Empire Loyalists.

CHAPTER X

THE WESTERN SETTLEMENTS

Sir Frederick Haldimand Offered the Loyalists a wide choice of places in which to settle. He
was willing to make land grants on Chaleur Bay, at Gaspe, on the north shore of the St Lawrence
above Montreal, on the Bay of Quinte, at Niagara, or along the Detroit river; and if none of
these places was suitable, he offered to transport to Nova Scotia or Cape Breton those who
wished to go thither. At all these places settlements of Loyalists sprang up. That at Niagara
grew to considerable importance, and became after the division of the province in 1791 the
capital of Upper Canada. But by far the largest settlement was that which Haldimand planned
along the north shore of the St Lawrence and Lake Ontario between the western boundary of the
government of Quebec and Cataraqui (now Kingston), east of the Bay of Quinte. Here the great
majority of the Loyalists in Canada were concentrated.

As soon as Haldimand received instructions from England with regard to the granting of the
lands he gave orders to Major Samuel Holland, surveyor-general of the king's territories in
North America, to proceed with the work of making the necessary surveys. Major Holland, taking
with him as assistants Lieutenants Kotte and Sutherland and deputy-surveyors John Collins and
Patrick McNish, set out in the early autumn of 1783, and before the winter closed in he had
completed the survey of five townships bordering on the Bay of Quinte. The next spring his
men returned, and surveyed eight townships along the north bank of the St Lawrence, between
the Bay of Quinte and the provincial boundary. These townships are now distinguished by names,
but in 1783-84 they were designated merely by numbers; thus for many years the old inhabitants
referred to the townships of Osnaburg, Williamsburg, and Matilda, for instance, as the 'third
town,' the 'fourth town,' and the 'fifth town.' The surveys were made in great haste, and,
it is to be feared, not with great care; for some tedious lawsuits arose out of the discrepancies
contained in them, and a generation later Robert Gourlay wrote that 'one of the present surveyors
informed me that in running new lines over a great extent of the province, he found spare room
for a whole township in the midst of those laid out at an early period.' Each township was
subdivided into lots of two hundred acres each, and a town-site was selected in each case which
was subdivided into town lots.

The task of transporting the settlers from their camping-places at Sorel, Machiche, and St
Johns to their new homes up the St Lawrence was one of some magnitude. General Haldimand was
not able himself to oversee the work; but he appointed Sir John Johnson as superintendent,
and the work of settlement went on under Johnson's care. On a given day the Loyalists were
ordered to strike camp, and proceed in a body to the new settlements. Any who remained behind
without sufficient excuse had their rations stopped. Bateaux took the settlers up the St Lawrence,
and the various detachments were disembarked at their respective destinations. It had been
decided that the settlers should be placed on the land as far as possible according to the
corps in which they had served during the war, and that care should be taken to have the Protestant
and Roman Catholic members of a corps settled separately. It was this arrangement which brought
about the grouping of Protestant and Roman Catholic Scottish Highlanders in Glengarry. The
first battalion of the King's Royal Regiment of New York was settled on the first five townships
west of the provincial boundary. This was Sir John Johnson's regiment, and most of its members
were his Scottish dependants from the Mohawk valley. The next three townships were settled
by part of Jessup's Corps, an offshoot of Sir John Johnson's regiment. Of the Cataraqui townships
the first was settled by a band of New York Loyalists, many of them of Dutch or German extraction,
commanded by Captain Michael Grass. On the second were part of Jessup's Corps; on the third
and fourth were a detachment of the second battalion of the King's Royal Regiment of New York,
which had been stationed at Oswego across the lake at the close of the war, a detachment of
Rogers's Rangers, and a party of New York Loyalists under Major Van Alstine. The parties commanded
by Grass and Van Alstine had come by ship from New York to Quebec after the evacuation of New
York in 1783. On the fifth township were various detachments of disbanded regular troops, and
even a handful of disbanded German mercenaries.

As soon as the settlers had been placed on the townships to which they had been assigned, they
received their allotments of land. The surveyor was the land agent, and the allotments were
apportioned by each applicant drawing a lot out of a hat. This democratic method of allotting
lands roused the indignation of some of the officers who had settled with their men. They felt
that they should have been given the front lots, unmindful of the fact that their grants as
officers were from five to ten times as large as the grants which their men received. Their
protests, contained in a letter of Captain Grass to the governor, roused Haldimand to a display
of warmth to which he was as a rule a stranger. Captain Grass and his associates, he wrote,
were to get no special privileges, 'the most of them who came into the province with him being,
in fact, mechanics, only removed from one situation to practise their trade in another. Mr
Grass should, therefore, think himself very well off to draw lots in common with the Loyalists.'
A good deal of difficulty arose also from the fact that many allotments were inferior to the
rest from an agricultural point of view; but difficulties of this sort were adjusted by Johnson
and Holland on the spot.

By 1784 nearly all the settlers were destitute and completely dependent on the generosity of
the British government. They had no effects; they had no money; and in many cases they were
sorely in need of clothes. The way in which Sir Frederick Haldimand came to their relief is
deserving of high praise. If he had adhered to the letter of his instructions from England,
the position of the Loyalists would have been a most unenviable one. Repeatedly, however, Haldimand
took on his own shoulders the responsibility of ignoring or disobeying the instructions from
England, and trusted to chance that his protests would prevent the government from repudiating
his actions. When the home government, for instance, ordered a reduction of the rations, Haldimand
undertook to continue them in full; and fortunately for him the home government, on receipt
of his protest, rescinded the order.

The settlers on the Upper St Lawrence and the Bay of Quinte did not perhaps fare as well as
those in Nova Scotia, or even the Mohawk Indians who settled on the Grand river. They did not
receive lumber for building purposes, and 'bricks for the inside of their chimneys, and a little
assistance of nails,' as did the former; nor did they receive ploughs and church-bells, as
did the latter. For building lumber they had to wait until saw-mills were constructed; instead
of ploughs they had at first to use hoes and spades, and there were not quite enough hoes and
spades to go round. Still, they did not fare badly. When the difficulty of transporting things
up the St Lawrence is remembered, it is remarkable that they obtained as much as they did.
In the first place they were supplied with clothes for three years, or until they were able
to provide clothes for themselves. These consisted of coarse cloth for trousers and Indian
blankets for coats. Boots they made out of skins or heavy cloth. Tools for building were given
them: to each family were given an ax and a hand-saw, though unfortunately the axes were short-handled
ship's axes, ill-adapted to cutting in the forest; to each group of two families were allotted
a whip-saw and a cross-cut saw; and to each group of five families was supplied a set of tools,
containing chisels, augers, draw-knives, etc. To each group of five families was also allotted
'one fire-lock ... intended for the messes, the pigeon and wildfowl season'; but later on a
fire-lock was supplied to every head of a family. Haldimand went to great trouble in obtaining
seed-wheat for the settlers, sending agents down even into Vermont and the Mohawk valley to
obtain all that was to be had; he declined, however, to supply stock for the farms, and although
eventually he obtained some cattle, there were not nearly enough cows to go round. In many
cases the soldiers were allowed the loan of the military tents; and everything was done to
have saw-mills and grist-mills erected in the most convenient places with the greatest possible
dispatch. In the meantime small portable grist-mills, worked by hand, were distributed among
the settlers.

Among the papers relating to the Loyalists in the Canadian Archives there is an abstract of
the numbers of the settlers in the five townships at Cataraqui and the eight townships on the
St Lawrence. There were altogether 1,568 men, 626 women, 1,492 children, and 90 servants, making
a total of 3,776 persons. These were, of course, only the original settlers. As time went on
others were added. Many of the soldiers had left their families in the States behind them,
and these families now hastened to cross the border. A proclamation had been issued by the
British government inviting those Loyalists who still remained in the States to assemble at
certain places along the frontier, namely, at Isle aux Noix, at Sackett's Harbour, at Oswego,
and at Niagara. The favourite route was the old trail from the Mohawk valley to Oswego, where
was stationed a detachment of the 34th regiment. From Oswego these refugees crossed to Cataraqui.
'Loyalists,' wrote an officer at Cataraqui in the summer of 1784, 'are coming in daily across
the lake.' To accommodate these new settlers three more townships had to be mapped out at the
west end of the Bay of Quinte.

