I have seen some who even appeared to consider this singular act of courage a means of making
their court.  I can easily understand also that with many their admiration for his Majesty
silenced all repugnance, for the same reason that we do not scruple to eat from the plate,
or drink from the glass, of a person whom we love, even though it might be considered doubtful
on the score of refinement; this is never noticed because love is blind.  The dish which the
Emperor preferred was the kind of fried chicken to which this preference of the conqueror of
Italy has given the name of poulet a la Marengo.  He also ate with relish beans, lentils, cutlets,
roast mutton, and roast chicken.  The simplest dishes were those he liked best, but he was
fastidious in the article of bread. It is not true, as reported, that he made an immoderate
use of coffee, for he only took half a cup after breakfast, and another after dinner; though
it sometimes happened when he was much preoccupied that he would take, without noticing it,
two cups in succession, though coffee taken in this quantity always excited him and kept him
from sleeping.

It also happened frequently that he took it cold, or without sugar, or with too much sugar.
To avoid all which mischances, the Empress Josephine made it her duty to pour out the Emperor's
coffee herself; and the Empress Marie Louise also adopted the same custom.  When the Emperor
had risen from the table and entered the little saloon, a page followed him, carrying on a
silvergilt waiter a coffee-pot, sugar-dish and cup. Her Majesty the Empress poured out the
coffee, put sugar in it, tried a few drops of it, and offered it to the Emperor.

The Emperor drank only Chambertin  wine, and rarely without water; for he had no fondness for
wine, and was a poor judge of it.  This recalls that one day at the camp of Boulogne, having
invited several officers to his table, his Majesty had wine poured for Marshal Augereau, and
asked him with an air of satisfaction how he liked it.  The Marshal tasted it, sipped it critically,
and finally replied, "There is better," in a tone which was unmistakable.  The Emperor, who
had expected a different reply, smiled, as did all the guests, at the Marshal's candor.

Every one has heard it said that his Majesty used great precautions against being poisoned,
which statement must be placed beside that concerning the cuirass proof against bullet and
dagger.  On the contrary, the Emperor carried his want of precaution only too far.  His breakfast
was brought every day into an antechamber open to all to whom had been granted a private audience,
and who sometimes waited there for several hours, and his Majesty's breakfast also waited a
long time.  The dishes were kept as warm as possible until he came out of his cabinet, and
took his seat at the table.  Their Majesties' dinner was carried from the kitchen to the upper
rooms in covered, hampers, and there was every opportunity of introducing poison; but in spite
of all this, never did such an idea enter the minds of the people in his service, whose devotion
and fidelity to the Emperor, even including the very humblest, surpassed any idea I could convey.

The habit of eating rapidly sometimes caused his Majesty violent pains in his stomach, which
ended almost always in a fit of vomiting.

One day the valet on duty came in great haste to tell me that the Emperor desired my presence
immediately.  His dinner had caused indigestion, and he was suffering greatly.  I hurried to
his Majesty's room, and found him stretched at full length on the rug, which was a habit of
the Emperor when he felt unwell.  The Empress Josephine was seated by his side, with the sick
man's head on her lap, while he groaned or stormed alternately, or did both at once: for the
Emperor bore this kind of misfortune with less composure than a thousand graver mischances
which the life of a soldier carries with it; and the hero of Arcola, whose life had been endangered
in a hundred battles, and elsewhere also, without lessening his fortitude, showed himself unequal
to the endurance of the slightest pain.  Her Majesty the Empress consoled and encouraged him
as best she could; and she, who was so courageous herself in enduring those headaches which,
on account of their excessive violence, were a genuine disease, would, had it been possible,
have taken on herself most willingly the ailment of her husband, from which she suffered almost
as much as he did, in witnessing his sufferings.  "Constant," said she, as I entered, "come
quick; the Emperor needs you; make him some tea, and do not go out till he is better."  His
Majesty had scarcely taken three cups before the pain decreased, while she continued to hold
his head on her knees, pressing his brow with her white, plump hands, and also rubbing his
breast.  "You feel better, do you not?  Would you like to lie down a little while?  I will
stay by your bed with Constant."  This tenderness was indeed touching, especially in one occupying
so elevated a rank.

My intimate service often gave me the opportunity of enjoying this picture of domestic felicity.
While I am on the subject of the Emperor's ailments, I will say a few words concerning the
most serious which he endured, with the exception of that which caused his death.

At the siege of Toulon, in 1793, the Emperor being then only colonel of artillery, a cannoneer
was killed at his gun; and Colonel Bonaparte picked up the rammer and rammed home the charge
several times.  The unfortunate artilleryman had an itch of the most malignant kind, which
the Emperor caught, and of which he was cured only after many years; and the doctors thought
that his sallow complexion and extreme leanness, which lasted so long a time, resulted from
this disease being improperly treated.  At the Tuileries he took sulphur baths, and wore for
some time a blister plaster, having suffered thus long because, as he said, he had not time
to take care of himself.  Corvisart warmly insisted on a cautery; but the Emperor, who wished
to preserve unimpaired the shapeliness of his arm, would not agree to this remedy.

It was at this same siege that he was promoted from the rank of chief of battalion to that
of colonel in consequence of a brilliant affair with the English, in which he received a bayonet
wound in the left thigh, the scar of which he often showed me.  The wound in the foot which
he received at the battle of Ratisbonne left no trace; and yet, when the Emperor received it,
the whole army became alarmed.

We were about twelve hundred yards from Ratisbonne, when the Emperor, seeing the Austrians
fleeing on all sides, thought the combat was over. His dinner had been brought in a hamper
to a place which the Emperor had designated; and as he was walking towards it, he turned to
Marshal Berthier, and exclaimed, "I am wounded!" The shock was so great that the Emperor fell
in a sitting posture, a bullet having, in fact, struck his heel.  From the size of this ball
it was apparent that it had been fired by a Tyrolean rifleman, whose weapon easily carried
the distance we were from the town.  It can well be understood that such an event troubled
and frightened the whole staff.

An aide-de-camp summoned me; and when I arrived I found Dr. Yvan cutting his Majesty's boot,
and assisted him in dressing the wound.  Although the pain was still quite severe, the Emperor
was not willing to take time to put on his boot again; and in order to turn the enemy, and
reassure the army as to his condition, he mounted his horse, and galloped along the line accompanied
by his whole staff.  That day, as may be believed, no one delayed to take breakfast, but all
dined at Ratisbonne.

His Majesty showed an invincible repugnance to all medicine; and when he used any, which was
very rarely, it was chicken broth, chicory, or cream of tartar.

Corvisart recommended him to refuse every drink which had a bitter or disagreeable taste, which
he did, I believe, in the fear that an attempt might be made to poison him.

At whatever hour the Emperor had retired, I entered his room at seven or eight o'clock in the
morning; and I have already said that his first questions invariably were as to the hour and
the kind of weather. Sometimes he complained to me of looking badly; and if this was true,
I agreed with him, and if it were not, I told him the truth. That the modern Persian was really
derived from Zend as Italian was from Latin; and

3. That the Avesta, or the works of Zoroaster, must have been reduced to writing at least previously
to Alexander's conquest. The opinion that Zend was an artificial language (an opinion held by
men of great eminence in Oriental philology, beginning with Sir W. Jones) is passed over by Rask
as not deserving of refutation.

The first edition of the Zend texts, the critical restitution of the MSS., the outlines of a
Zend grammar, with the translation and philological anatomy of considerable portions of the
Zoroastrian writings, were the work of the late Eugène Burnouf. He was the real founder of Zend philology.
It is clear from his works, and from Bopp's valuable remarks in his 'Comparative Grammar,' that
Zend in its grammar and dictionary is nearer to Sanskrit than any other Indo-European language.
Many Zend words can be retranslated into Sanskrit simply by changing the Zend letters into their
corresponding forms in Sanskrit. With regard to the Correspondence of Letters in Grimm's sense of
the word, Zend ranges with Sanskrit and the classical languages. It differs from Sanskrit principally
in its sibilants, nasals, and aspirates. The Sanskrit s, for instance, is represented by the Zend
h, a change analogous to that of an original s into the Greek aspirate,
only that in Greek this change is not general.

Thus the geographical name hapta hendu, which occurs in the Avesta, becomes intelligible if we retranslate
the Zend h into the Sanskrit s. For sapta sindhu, or the Seven Rivers, is the old Vaidik name
of India itself, derived from the five rivers of the Penjâb, together with the Indus, and the
Sarasvatî.

Where Sanskrit differs in words or grammatical peculiarities from the northern members of the
Aryan family, it frequently coincides with Zend. The numerals are the same in all these languages
up to 100. The name for thousand, however, sahasra, is peculiar to Sanskrit, and does not occur
in any of the Indo-European dialects except in Zend, where it becomes hazanra. In the same
manner the German and Slavonic languages have a word for thousand peculiar to themselves; as also
in Greek and Latin we find many common words which we look for in vain in any of the other Indo-European
dialects. These facts are full of historical meaning; and with regard to Zend and Sanskrit,
they prove that these two languages continued together long after they were separated from the common
Indo-European stock.

Still more striking is the similarity between Persia and India in religion and mythology. Gods
unknown to any Indo-European nation are worshipped under the same names in Sanskrit and Zend;
and the change of some of the most sacred expressions in Sanskrit into names of evil spirits
in Zend, only serves to strengthen the conviction that we have here the usual traces of a schism
which separated a community that had once been united.

Burnouf, who compared the language and religion of the Avesta principally with the later classical
Sanskrit, inclined at first to the opinion that this schism took place in Persia, and that
the dissenting Brahmans immigrated afterwards into India. This is still the prevailing opinion, but it
requires to be modified in accordance with new facts elicited from the Veda. Zend, if compared
with classical Sanskrit, exhibits in many points of grammar, features of a more primitive
character than Sanskrit. But it can now be shown, and Burnouf himself admitted it, that when
this is the case, the Vaidik differs on the very same points from the later Sanskrit, and has
preserved the same primitive and irregular form as the Zend. I still hold, that the name of
Zend was originally a corruption of the Sanskrit word khandas (i. e. metrical language, cf. scandere),[35]
which is the name given to the language of the Veda by Pânini and others. When we read in Pânini's
grammar that certain forms occur in khandas, but not in the classical language, we may almost
always translate the word khandas by Zend, for nearly all these rules
apply equally to the language of the Avesta.

[Footnote 35: The derivation
of khandas, metre, from the same root which yielded the Latin scandere,
seems to me still the most plausible. An account of the various explanations
of this word, proposed by Eastern and Western scholars, is to be found
in Spiegel's 'Grammar of the Parsi Language' (preface, and p. 205),
and in his translation of the Vendidad (pp. 44 and 293).  To remedy this inconvenience, the servants assembled in council, and it was decided
that Roustan should hold the looking-glass for his Majesty.  When the Emperor had shaved one
side, he turned the other side to view, and made Roustan pass from left to right, or from right
to left, according to the side on which he commenced. After shaving, the Emperor washed his
face and hands, and had his nails carefully cleaned; then I took off his flannel vest and shirt,
and rubbed his whole bust with an extremely soft silk brush, afterwards rubbing him with eau-de-cologne,
of which he used a great quantity, for every day he was rubbed and dressed thus.  It was in
the East he had acquired this hygienic custom, which he enjoyed greatly, and which is really
excellent. All these preparations ended, I put on him light flannel or cashmere slippers, white
silk stockings, the only kind he ever wore, and very fine linen or fustian drawers, sometimes
knee-breeches of white cassimere, with soft riding-boots, sometimes pantaloons of the same
stuff and color, with little English half-boots which came to the middle of the leg, and were
finished with small silver spurs which were never more than six lines in length.  All his,
boots were finished with these spurs.  I then put on him his flannel vest and shirt, a neck-cloth
of very fine muslin, and over all a black silk stock; finally a round vest of white pique,
and either a chasseur's or grenadier's coat, usually the former.  His toilet ended, he was
presented with his handkerchief, his tobacco-box, and a little shell bog filled with aniseed
and licorice, ground very fine.  It will be seen by the above that the Emperor had himself
dressed by his attendants from head to foot.  He put his hand to nothing, but let himself be
dressed like an infant, his mind filled with business during the entire performance.

I had forgotten to say that he used boxwood toothpicks, and a brush dipped in some opiate.
The Emperor was born, so to speak, to be waited on (homme d valets de chambre).  When only
a general, he had as many as three valets, and had himself served with as much luxury as at
the height of his fortunes, and from that time received all the attentions I have just described,
and which it was almost impossible for him to do without; and in this particular the etiquette
was never changed.  He increased the number of his servants, and decorated them with new titles,
but he could not have more services rendered him personally.  He subjected himself very rarely
to the grand etiquette of royalty, and never, for example, did the grand chamberlain hand him
his shirt; and on one occasion only, when the city of Paris gave him a dinner at the time of
his coronation, did the grand marshal hand him water to wash his hands.  I shall give a description
of his toilet on the day of his coronation; and it will be seen that even on that day his Majesty,
the Emperor of the French, did not require any other ceremonial than that to which he had been
accustomed as general and First Consul of the Republic.

The Emperor had no fixed hour for retiring: sometimes he retired at ten or eleven o'clock in
the evening; oftener he stayed awake till two, three, or four o'clock in the morning.  He was
soon undressed; for it was his habit, on entering the room, to throw each garment right and
left,-- his coat on the floor, his grand cordon on the rug, his watch hap-hazard at the bed,
his hat far off on a piece of furniture; thus with all his clothing, one piece after another.
When he was in a good humor, he called me in a loud voice, with this kind of a cry: "Ohe, oh!
oh!" at other times, when he was not in good humor, "Monsieur, Monsieur Constant!"

At all seasons his bed had to be warmed with a warming-pan, and it was only during the very
hottest weather that he would dispense with this. His habit of undressing himself in haste
rarely left me anything to do, except to hand him his night-cap.  I then lighted his night-lamp,
which was of gilded silver, and shaded it so that it would give less light. When he did not
go to sleep at once, he had one of his secretaries called, or perhaps the Empress Josephine,
to read to him; which duty no one could discharge better than her Majesty, for which reason
the Emperor preferred her to all his readers, for she read with that especial charm which was
natural to her in all she did.  By order of the Emperor, there was burnt in his bedroom, in
little silver perfume-boxes, sometimes aloes wood, and sometimes sugar or vinegar; and almost
the year round it was necessary to have a fire in all his apartments, as he was habitually
very sensitive to cold.  When he wished to sleep, I returned to take out his lamp, and went
up to my own room, my bedroom being just above that of his Majesty.  Roustan and a valet on
service slept in a little apartment adjoining the Emperor's bedroom; and if he needed me during
the night, the boy of the wardrobe, who slept in an antechamber, came for me.  Water was always
kept hot for his bath, for often at any hour of the night as well as the day he might suddenly
be seized with a fancy to take one.

Doctor Yvan appeared every morning and evening, at the rising and retiring of his Majesty.

It is well known that the Emperor often had his secretaries, and even his ministers, called
during the night.  During his stay at Warsaw, the Prince de Talleyrand once received a message
after midnight; he came at once, and had a long interview with the Emperor, and work was prolonged
late into the night, when his Majesty, fatigued, at last fell into a deep slumber.  The Prince
of Benevento, who was afraid to go out, fearing lest he might awaken the Emperor or be recalled
to continue the conversation, casting his eyes around, perceived a comfortable sofa, so he
stretched himself out on it, and went to sleep.  Meneval,  secretary to his Majesty, not wishing
to retire till after the minister had left, knowing that the Emperor would probably call for
him as soon as Talleyrand had retired, became impatient at such a long interview; and as for
me, I was not in the best humor, since it was impossible for me to retire without taking away
his Majesty's lamp.  Meneval came a dozen times to ask me if Prince Talleyrand had left.  "He
is there yet," said I.  "I am sure of it, and yet I hear nothing."  At last I begged him to
place himself in the room where I then was, and on which the street-door opened, whilst I went
to act as sentinel in a vestibule on which the Emperor's room had another opening; and it was
arranged that the one of us who saw the prince go out would inform the other.  Two o'clock
sounded, then three, then four; no one appeared, and there was not the least movement in his
Majesty's room.  Losing patience at last, I half opened the door as gently as possible; but
the Emperor, whose sleep was very light, woke with a start, and asked in a loud tone: "Who
is that?  Who comes there?" "What is that?"  I replied, that, thinking the Prince of Benevento
had gone out, I had come for his Majesty's lamp.  "Talleyrand!  Talleyrand!" cried out his
Majesty vehemently.  "Where is he, then?"  and seeing him waking up, "well, I declare he is
asleep!  Come, you wretch; how dare you sleep in my room! ah! ah!" I left without taking out
the lamp; they began talking again, and Meneval and I awaited the end of the tete-a- tete,
until five o'clock in the morning. 

The care taken to shake the snow day by day from the branches seemed greatly to avail the author's
evergreens. A neighbour's laurel- hedge, in a high situation, and facing to the north, was perfectly
green and vigorous, and the Portugal laurels remained unhurt.

As to the birds, the thrushes and blackbirds were mostly destroyed; and the partridges, by the weather
and poachers, were so thinned that few remained to breed the following year.

LETTER LXIII.
As the frost in December 1784 was very extraordinary, you, I trust,
will not be displeased to hear the particulars, and especially when
I promise to say no more about the severities of winter after I have
finished this letter.

The first week in December was very wet, with
the barometer very low.  He made very few, not to say
no, presents to members of his household; and the first day of the year even passed without
loosening his purse-strings.  While I was undressing him the evening before, he said, pinching
my ear, "Well, Monsieur Constant, what will you give me for my present?"  The first time he
asked this question I replied I would give him whatever he wished; but I must confess that
I very much hoped it would not be I who would give presents next day.  It seemed that the idea
never occurred to him; for no one had to thank him for his gifts, and he never departed afterwards
from this rule of domestic economy.  Apropos of this pinching of ears, to which I have recurred
so often, because his Majesty repeated it so often, it is necessary that I should say, while
I think of it, and in closing this subject, that any one would be much mistaken in supposing
that he touched lightly the party exposed to his marks of favor; he pinched, on the contrary,
very hard, and pinched as much stronger in proportion as he happened to be in a better humor.

Sometimes, when I entered his room to dress him, he would run at me like a mad man, and saluting
me with his favorite greeting, "Well, Monsieur le drole," would pinch my ears in such a manner
as to make me cry out; he often added to these gentle caresses one or two taps, also well applied.
I was then sure of finding him all the rest of the day in a charming humor, and full of good-will,
as I have seen him, so often.  Roustan, and even Marshal Berthier, received their due proportion
of these imperial tendernesses.

CHAPTER XX.

The allowance made by his Majesty for the yearly expenses of his dress was twenty thousand
francs; and the year of, the coronation he became very angry because that sum had been exceeded. Jim
is the managing director of Cupreouscine, Limited, a firm which deals in a wonderful copper alloy
which he himself has invented, and the book tells the story of his long and losing fight against
the other directors, who are all in favour of amalgamation with another and much larger concern.
Sketched in so few words the book's subject sounds unattractive, but Miss UNA L. SILBERRAD
has a genius for making "shop" as interesting in her novels as it usually is in real life, and Jim's
plans and enterprises and the circuitous ways of the other directors provide material for quite
an exciting story. When I say "other directors," Mary Gore, representing a brother on the board
of Cupreouscine and backing Jim through thick and thin to the limit
of her powers, must be excepted.

While on the subject of accounts, I recall a circumstance which should have a place in my memoirs,
since it concerns me personally, and moreover gives an idea of the manner in which his Majesty
understood economy.  He set out with the idea, which was, I think, often very correct, that
in private expenses as in public ones, even granting the honesty of agents (which the Emperor
was always, I admit, very slow to do), the same things could have been done with much less
money.  Thus, when he required retrenchment, it was not in the number of objects of expense,
but only in the prices charged for these articles by the furnishers; and I will elsewhere cite
some examples of the effect which this idea produced on the conduct of his Majesty towards
the accounting agents of his government.  Now I am relating only private matters.  One day
when investigating various accounts, the Emperor complained much of the expenses of the stables,
and cut off a considerable sum; and the grand equerry, in order to put into effect the required
economy, found it necessary to deprive several persons in the household of their carriages,
mine being included in this number.  Some days after the execution of this measure, his Majesty
charged me with a commission, which necessitated a carriage; and I was obliged to inform him
that, no longer having mine, I should not be able to execute his orders.  The Emperor then
exclaimed that he had not intended this, and M. Caulaincourt must have a poor idea of economy.
When he again saw the Duke of Vicenza, he said to him that he did not wish anything of mine
to be touched.

The Emperor occasionally read in the morning the new works and romances of the day; and when
a work displeased him, he threw it into the fire. This does not mean that only improper books
were thus destroyed; for if the author was not among his favorites, or if he spoke too well
of a foreign country, that was sufficient to condemn the volume to the flames. On this account
I saw his Majesty throw into the fire a volume of the works of Madame de Stael, on Germany. "He
is not strong," replied her mother, remembering Brother Ansel's statement that the Elder "wa'n't
diseased anywheres, but did n't have no durability."

"The Elder would have a lovely lap," Sue remarked presently.

"What?"

"A
nice lap to sit in.  One morning
he had glanced over and thrown in the fire a book (by what author I do not know); and when
Roustan stooped down to take it out the Emperor stopped him, saying, "Let that filthy thing
burn; it is all that it deserves."

