CHAPTER XXVII

THE YANKEE AND THE KING TRAVEL INCOGNITO

About bedtime I took the king to my private quarters to cut his hair and help him get the hang
of the lowly raiment he was to wear. The high classes wore their hair banged across the forehead
but hanging to the shoulders the rest of the way around, whereas the lowest ranks of commoners
were banged fore and aft both; the slaves were bangless, and allowed their hair free growth.
So I inverted a bowl over his head and cut away all the locks that hung below it. I also trimmed
his whiskers and mustache until they were only about a half-inch long; and tried to do it inartistically,
and succeeded.  It was a villainous disfigurement.  When he got his lubberly sandals on, and
his long robe of coarse brown linen cloth, which hung straight from his neck to his ankle-bones,
he was no longer the comeliest man in his kingdom, but one of the unhandsomest and most commonplace
and unattractive.  We were dressed and barbered alike, and could pass for small farmers, or
farm bailiffs, or shepherds, or carters; yes, or for village artisans, if we chose, our costume
being in effect universal among the poor, because of its strength and cheapness.  I don't mean
that it was really cheap to a very poor person, but I do mean that it was the cheapest material
there was for male attire--manufactured material, you understand.

We slipped away an hour before dawn, and by broad sun-up had made eight or ten miles, and were
in the midst of a sparsely settled country.  I had a pretty heavy knapsack; it was laden with
provisions--provisions for the king to taper down on, till he could take to the coarse fare
of the country without damage.

I found a comfortable seat for the king by the roadside, and then gave him a morsel or two
to stay his stomach with.  Then I said I would find some water for him, and strolled away.
Part of my project was to get out of sight and sit down and rest a little myself.  It had always
been my custom to stand when in his presence; even at the council board, except upon those
rare occasions when the sitting was a very long one, extending over hours; then I had a trifling
little backless thing which was like a reversed culvert and was as comfortable as the toothache.
I didn't want to break him in suddenly, but do it by degrees.  We should have to sit together
now when in company, or people would notice; but it would not be good politics for me to be
playing equality with him when there was no necessity for it.

I found the water some three hundred yards away, and had been resting about twenty minutes,
when I heard voices.  That is all right, I thought--peasants going to work; nobody else likely
to be stirring this early.  But the next moment these comers jingled into sight around a turn
of the road--smartly clad people of quality, with luggage-mules and servants in their train!
I was off like a shot, through the bushes, by the shortest cut.  For a while it did seem that
these people would pass the king before I could get to him; but desperation gives you wings,
you know, and I canted my body forward, inflated my breast, and held my breath and flew. I
arrived.  And in plenty good enough time, too.

"Pardon, my king, but it's no time for ceremony--jump!  Jump to your feet--some quality are
coming!"

"Is that a marvel?  Let them come."

"But my liege!  You must not be seen sitting.  Rise!--and stand in humble posture while they
pass.  You are a peasant, you know."

"True--I had forgot it, so lost was I in planning of a huge war with Gaul"--he was up by this
time, but a farm could have got up quicker, if there was any kind of a boom in real estate--"and
right-so a thought came randoming overthwart this majestic dream the which--"

"A humbler attitude, my lord the king--and quick!  Duck your head! --more!--still more!--droop it!"

He did his honest best, but lord, it was no great things.  He looked as humble as the leaning
tower at Pisa.  It is the most you could say of it.  Indeed, it was such a thundering poor
success that it raised wondering scowls all along the line, and a gorgeous flunkey at the tail
end of it raised his whip; but I jumped in time and was under it when it fell; and under cover
of the volley of coarse laughter which followed, I spoke up sharply and warned the king to
take no notice.  He mastered himself for the moment, but it was a sore tax; he wanted to eat
up the procession.  I said:

"It would end our adventures at the very start; and we, being without weapons, could do nothing
with that armed gang.  If we are going to succeed in our emprise, we must not only look the
peasant but act the peasant."

"It is wisdom; none can gainsay it.  Let us go on, Sir Boss. I will take note and learn, and
do the best I may."

He kept his word.  He did the best he could, but I've seen better. If you have ever seen an
active, heedless, enterprising child going diligently out of one mischief and into another
all day long, and an anxious mother at its heels all the while, and just saving it by a hair
from drowning itself or breaking its neck with each new experiment, you've seen the king and me.

If I could have foreseen what the thing was going to be like, I should have said, No, if anybody
wants to make his living exhibiting a king as a peasant, let him take the layout; I can do
better with a menagerie, and last longer.  And yet, during the first three days I never allowed
him to enter a hut or other dwelling. The delegations are annually summoned by the monarch alternately
to Vienna and to Budapest. Each delegation has its separate sittings, both alike public. Their
decisions are reciprocally communicated in writing, and, in case
of non-agreement, their deliberations are renewed.

Should three such interchanges be made without agreement, a common plenary sitting is held of an
equal number of both delegations; and these collectively, without discussion, decide the question
by common vote.



"From a smuggler at the inn, yester eve."

"What in the world possessed you to buy it?"

"We have escaped divers dangers by wit--thy wit--but I have bethought me that it were but prudence
if I bore a weapon, too. Thine might fail thee in some pinch."

"But people of our condition are not allowed to carry arms.  What would a lord say--yes, or
any other person of whatever condition --if he caught an upstart peasant with a dagger on his
person?"

It was a lucky thing for us that nobody came along just then. I persuaded him to throw the
dirk away; and it was as easy as persuading a child to give up some bright fresh new way of
killing itself.  We walked along, silent and thinking.  Finally the king said:

"When ye know that I meditate a thing inconvenient, or that hath a peril in it, why do you
not warn me to cease from that project?"

It was a startling question, and a puzzler.  I didn't quite know how to take hold of it, or
what to say, and so, of course, I ended by saying the natural thing:

"But, sire, how can I know what your thoughts are?"

The king stopped dead in his tracks, and stared at me.

"I believed thou wert greater than Merlin; and truly in magic thou art.  But prophecy is greater
than magic.  Merlin is a prophet."

I saw I had made a blunder.  I must get back my lost ground. After a deep reflection and careful
planning, I said:

"Sire, I have been misunderstood.  I will explain.  There are two kinds of prophecy.  One is
the gift to foretell things that are but a little way off, the other is the gift to foretell
things that are whole ages and centuries away.  Which is the mightier gift, do you think?"

"Oh, the last, most surely!"

"True.  Does Merlin possess it?"

"Partly, yes.  He foretold mysteries about my birth and future kingship that were twenty years
away."

"Has he ever gone beyond that?"

"He would not claim more, I think."

"It is probably his limit.  All prophets have their limit.  The limit of some of the great
prophets has been a hundred years."

"These are few, I ween."

"There have been two still greater ones, whose limit was four hundred and six hundred years,
and one whose limit compassed even seven hundred and twenty."

"Gramercy, it is marvelous!"

"But what are these in comparison with me?  They are nothing."

"What?  Canst thou truly look beyond even so vast a stretch of time as--"

"Seven hundred years?  My liege, as clear as the vision of an eagle does my prophetic eye penetrate
and lay bare the future of this world for nearly thirteen centuries and a half!"

My land, you should have seen the king's eyes spread slowly open, and lift the earth's entire
atmosphere as much as an inch!  That settled Brer Merlin.  One never had any occasion to prove
his facts, with these people; all he had to do was to state them.  It never occurred to anybody
to doubt the statement.

"Now, then," I continued, "I could work both kinds of prophecy --the long and the short--if
I chose to take the trouble to keep in practice; but I seldom exercise any but the long kind,
because the other is beneath my dignity.  It is properer to Merlin's sort --stump-tail prophets,
as we call them in the profession.  Of course, I whet up now and then and flirt out a minor
prophecy, but not often--hardly ever, in fact.  You will remember that there was great talk,
when you reached the Valley of Holiness, about my having prophesied your coming and the very
hour of your arrival, two or three days beforehand."

"Indeed, yes, I mind it now."

"Well, I could have done it as much as forty times easier, and piled on a thousand times more
detail into the bargain, if it had been five hundred years away instead of two or three days."

"How amazing that it should be so!"

"Yes, a genuine expert can always foretell a thing that is five hundred years away easier than
he can a thing that's only five hundred seconds off."

"And yet in reason it should clearly be the other way; it should be five hundred times as easy
to foretell the last as the first, for, indeed, it is so close by that one uninspired might
almost see it.  In truth, the law of prophecy doth contradict the likelihoods, most strangely
making the difficult easy, and the easy difficult."

It was a wise head.  A peasant's cap was no safe disguise for it; you could know it for a king's
under a diving-bell, if you could hear it work its intellect.

I had a new trade now, and plenty of business in it.  The king was as hungry to find out everything
that was going to happen during the next thirteen centuries as if he were expecting to live
in them.  From that time out, I prophesied myself bald-headed trying to supply the demand.
I have done some indiscreet things in my day, but this thing of playing myself for a prophet
was the worst.  Still, it had its ameliorations.  A prophet doesn't have to have any brains.
They are good to have, of course, for the ordinary exigencies of life, but they are no use
in professional work.  It is the restfulest vocation there is.  When the spirit of prophecy
comes upon you, you merely cake your intellect and lay it off in a cool place for a rest, and
unship your jaw and leave it alone; it will work itself: the result is prophecy.

Every day a knight-errant or so came along, and the sight of them fired the king's martial
spirit every time.  He would have forgotten himself, sure, and said something to them in a
style a suspicious shade or so above his ostensible degree, and so I always got him well out
of the road in time.  Then he would stand and look with all his eyes; and a proud light would
flash from them, and his nostrils would inflate like a war-horse's, and I knew he was longing
for a brush with them.  But about noon of the third day I had stopped in the road to take a
precaution which had been suggested by the whip-stroke that had fallen to my share two days
before; a precaution which I had afterward decided to leave untaken, I was so loath to institute
it; but now I had just had a fresh reminder: while striding heedlessly along, with jaw spread
and intellect at rest, for I was prophesying, I stubbed my toe and fell sprawling.  I was so
pale I couldn't think for a moment; then I got softly and carefully up and unstrapped my knapsack.
I had that dynamite bomb in it, done up in wool in a box.  It was a good thing to have along;
the time would come when I could do a valuable miracle with it, maybe, but it was a nervous
thing to have about me, and I didn't like to ask the king to carry it. Yet I must either throw
it away or think up some safe way to get along with its society.  I got it out and slipped
it into my scrip, and just then here came a couple of knights.  The king stood, stately as
a statue, gazing toward them--had forgotten himself again, of course--and before I could get
a word of warning out, it was time for him to skip, and well that he did it, too.  He supposed
they would turn aside.  Turn aside to avoid trampling peasant dirt under foot?  When had he
ever turned aside himself--or ever had the chance to do it, if a peasant saw him or any other
noble knight in time to judiciously save him the trouble?  The knights paid no attention to
the king at all; it was his place to look out himself, and if he hadn't skipped he would have
been placidly ridden down, and laughed at besides.

The king was in a flaming fury, and launched out his challenge and epithets with a most royal
vigor.  The knights were some little distance by now.  They halted, greatly surprised, and
turned in their saddles and looked back, as if wondering if it might be worth while to bother
with such scum as we.  Then they wheeled and started for us.  Not a moment must be lost.  I
started for them. I passed them at a rattling gait, and as I went by I flung out a hair-lifting
soul-scorching thirteen-jointed insult which made the king's effort poor and cheap by comparison.
I got it out of the nineteenth century where they know how.  They had such headway that they
were nearly to the king before they could check up; then, frantic with rage, they stood up
their horses on their hind hoofs and whirled them around, and the next moment here they came,
breast to breast.  I was seventy yards off, then, and scrambling up a great bowlder at the
roadside.  When they were within thirty yards of me they let their long lances droop to a level,
depressed their mailed heads, and so, with their horse-hair plumes streaming straight out behind,
most gallant to see, this lightning express came tearing for me!  When they were within fifteen
yards, I sent that bomb with a sure aim, and it struck the ground just under the horses' noses.

Yes, it was a neat thing, very neat and pretty to see.  It resembled a steamboat explosion
on the Mississippi; and during the next fifteen minutes we stood under a steady drizzle of
microscopic fragments of knights and hardware and horse-flesh.  I say we, for the king joined
the audience, of course, as soon as he had got his breath again.  There was a hole there which
would afford steady work for all the people in that region for some years to come --in trying
to explain it, I mean; as for filling it up, that service would be comparatively prompt, and
would fall to the lot of a select few--peasants of that seignory; and they wouldn't get anything
for it, either.

But I explained it to the king myself. I said it was done with a dynamite bomb.  This information
did him no damage, because it left him as intelligent as he was before.  However, it was a
noble miracle, in his eyes, and was another settler for Merlin.  I thought it well enough to
explain that this was a miracle of so rare a sort that it couldn't be done except when the
atmospheric conditions were just right.  Otherwise he would be encoring it every time we had
a good subject, and that would be inconvenient, because I hadn't any more bombs along.

CHAPTER XXVIII

DRILLING THE KING

On the morning of the fourth day, when it was just sunrise, and we had been tramping an hour
in the chill dawn, I came to a resolution: the king must be drilled; things could not go on
so, he must be taken in hand and deliberately and conscientiously drilled, or we couldn't ever
venture to enter a dwelling; the very cats would know this masquerader for a humbug and no
peasant.  So I called a halt and said:

"Sire, as between clothes and countenance, you are all right, there is no discrepancy; but
as between your clothes and your bearing, you are all wrong, there is a most noticeable discrepancy.
Your soldierly stride, your lordly port--these will not do.  You stand too straight, your looks
are too high, too confident.  The cares of a kingdom do not stoop the shoulders, they do not
droop the chin, they do not depress the high level of the eye-glance, they do not put doubt
and fear in the heart and hang out the signs of them in slouching body and unsure step.  It
is the sordid cares of the lowly born that do these things.  You must learn the trick; you
must imitate the trademarks of poverty, misery, oppression, insult, and the other several and
common inhumanities that sap the manliness out of a man and make him a loyal and proper and
approved subject and a satisfaction to his masters, or the very infants will know you for better
than your disguise, and we shall go to pieces at the first hut we stop at.  Pray try to walk
like this."

The king took careful note, and then tried an imitation.

"Pretty fair--pretty fair.  Chin a little lower, please--there, very good.  Eyes too high;
pray don't look at the horizon, look at the ground, ten steps in front of you.  Ah--that is
better, that is very good.  Wait, please; you betray too much vigor, too much decision; you
want more of a shamble.  Look at me, please--this is what I mean....  Now you are getting it;
that is the idea--at least, it sort of approaches it....  Yes, that is pretty fair.  But! There
is a great big something wanting, I don't quite know what it is.  Please walk thirty yards,
so that I can get a perspective on the thing....  Now, then--your head's right, speed's right,
shoulders right, eyes right, chin right, gait, carriage, general style right--everything's
right!  And yet the fact remains, the aggregate's wrong.  The account don't balance.  Do it
again, please....  Now I think I begin to see what it is.  Yes, I've struck it.  You see, the
genuine spiritlessness is wanting; that's what's the trouble.  It's all amateur--mechanical
details all right, almost to a hair; everything about the delusion perfect, except that it
don't delude."

"What, then, must one do, to prevail?"

"Let me think... I can't seem to quite get at it.  In fact, there isn't anything that can right
the matter but practice.  This is a good place for it: roots and stony ground to break up your
stately gait, a region not liable to interruption, only one field and one hut in sight, and
they so far away that nobody could see us from there.  It will be well to move a little off
the road and put in the whole day drilling you, sire."

After the drill had gone on a little while, I said:

"Now, sire, imagine that we are at the door of the hut yonder, and the family are before us.
Proceed, please--accost the head of the house."

The king unconsciously straightened up like a monument, and said, with frozen austerity:

"Varlet, bring a seat; and serve to me what cheer ye have."

"Ah, your grace, that is not well done."

"In what lacketh it?"

"These people do not call each other varlets."

"Nay, is that true?"

"Yes; only those above them call them so."

"Then must I try again.  I will call him villein."

"No-no; for he may be a freeman."

"Ah--so.  Then peradventure I should call him goodman."

"That would answer, your grace, but it would be still better if you said friend, or brother."

"Brother!--to dirt like that?"

"Ah, but we are pretending to be dirt like that, too."

"It is even true.  I will say it.  Brother, bring a seat, and thereto what cheer ye have, withal.
Now 'tis right."

"Not quite, not wholly right.  You have asked for one, not us --for one, not both; food for
one, a seat for one."

The king looked puzzled--he wasn't a very heavy weight, intellectually. His head was an hour-glass;
it could stow an idea, but it had to do it a grain at a time, not the whole idea at once.

"Would you have a seat also--and sit?"

"If I did not sit, the man would perceive that we were only pretending to be equals--and playing
the deception pretty poorly, too."

"It is well and truly said!  How wonderful is truth, come it in whatsoever unexpected form
it may!  Yes, he must bring out seats and food for both, and in serving us present not ewer
and napkin with more show of respect to the one than to the other."

"And there is even yet a detail that needs correcting.  He must bring nothing outside; we will
go in--in among the dirt, and possibly other repulsive things,--and take the food with the
household, and after the fashion of the house, and all on equal terms, except the man be of
the serf class; and finally, there will be no ewer and no napkin, whether he be serf or free.
Please walk again, my liege.  There--it is better--it is the best yet; but not perfect.  The
shoulders have known no ignobler burden than iron mail, and they will not stoop."

"Give me, then, the bag.  I will learn the spirit that goeth with burdens that have not honor.
It is the spirit that stoopeth the shoulders, I ween, and not the weight; for armor is heavy,
yet it is a proud burden, and a man standeth straight in it.... Nay, but me no buts, offer
me no objections.  I will have the thing. Strap it upon my back."

He was complete now with that knapsack on, and looked as little like a king as any man I had
ever seen.  But it was an obstinate pair of shoulders; they could not seem to learn the trick
of stooping with any sort of deceptive naturalness.  The drill went on, I prompting and correcting:

"Now, make believe you are in debt, and eaten up by relentless creditors; you are out of work--which
is horse-shoeing, let us say--and can get none; and your wife is sick, your children are crying
because they are hungry--" 

T. Ba. - SIR THOMAS BARCLAY, M.P. Member of the Institute of International Law. Member of the
Supreme Council of the Congo Free State. Officer of the Legion of Honour. Author of Problems
of International Practice and Diplomacy; &c. M.P. for Blackburn, 1910.

- Belligerency.

T. E. H. - THOMAS ERSKINE HOLLAND, K.C., D.C.L.,
LL.D. Fellow of the British Academy. Fellow of All Souls' College,
Oxford. Formerly Professor of International Law in the University
of Oxford. Bencher of Lincoln's Inn.  There are wise people who talk ever so knowingly and complacently about "the
working classes," and satisfy themselves that a day's hard intellectual work is very much harder
than a day's hard manual toil, and is righteously entitled to much bigger pay.  Why, they really
think that, you know, because they know all about the one, but haven't tried the other.  But
I know all about both; and so far as I am concerned, there isn't money enough in the universe
to hire me to swing a pickaxe thirty days, but I will do the hardest kind of intellectual work
for just as near nothing as you can cipher it down--and I will be satisfied, too.

Intellectual "work" is misnamed; it is a pleasure, a dissipation, and is its own highest reward.
The poorest paid architect, engineer, general, author, sculptor, painter, lecturer, advocate,
legislator, actor, preacher, singer is constructively in heaven when he is at work; and as
for the musician with the fiddle-bow in his hand who sits in the midst of a great orchestra
with the ebbing and flowing tides of divine sound washing over him--why, certainly, he is at
work, if you wish to call it that, but lord, it's a sarcasm just the same.  The law of work
does seem utterly unfair--but there it is, and nothing can change it: the higher the pay in
enjoyment the worker gets out of it, the higher shall be his pay in cash, also.  And it's also
the very law of those transparent swindles, transmissible nobility and kingship.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE SMALLPOX HUT

When we arrived at that hut at mid-afternoon, we saw no signs of life about it.  The field
near by had been denuded of its crop some time before, and had a skinned look, so exhaustively
had it been harvested and gleaned.  Fences, sheds, everything had a ruined look, and were eloquent
of poverty.  No animal was around anywhere, no living thing in sight.  The stillness was awful,
it was like the stillness of death.  The cabin was a one-story one, whose thatch was black
with age, and ragged from lack of repair.

The door stood a trifle ajar.  We approached it stealthily--on tiptoe and at half-breath--for
that is the way one's feeling makes him do, at such a time.  The king knocked.  We waited.
No answer.  Knocked again.  No answer.  I pushed the door softly open and looked in. I made
out some dim forms, and a woman started up from the ground and stared at me, as one does who
is wakened from sleep.  Presently she found her voice:

"Have mercy!" she pleaded.  "All is taken, nothing is left."

"I have not come to take anything, poor woman."

"You are not a priest?"

"No."

"Nor come not from the lord of the manor?"

"No, I am a stranger."

"Oh, then, for the fear of God, who visits with misery and death such as be harmless, tarry
not here, but fly!  This place is under his curse--and his Church's."

"Let me come in and help you--you are sick and in trouble."

I was better used to the dim light now.  I could see her hollow eyes fixed upon me.  I could
see how emaciated she was.

"I tell you the place is under the Church's ban.  Save yourself --and go, before some straggler
see thee here, and report it."

"Give yourself no trouble about me; I don't care anything for the Church's curse.  Let me help
you."

"Now all good spirits--if there be any such--bless thee for that word.  Would God I had a sup
of water!--but hold, hold, forget I said it, and fly; for there is that here that even he that
feareth not the Church must fear: this disease whereof we die. Leave us, thou brave, good stranger,
and take with thee such whole and sincere blessing as them that be accursed can give."

But before this I had picked up a wooden bowl and was rushing past the king on my way to the
brook.  It was ten yards away. When I got back and entered, the king was within, and was opening
the shutter that closed the window-hole, to let in air and light. The place was full of a foul
stench.  I put the bowl to the woman's lips, and as she gripped it with her eager talons the
shutter came open and a strong light flooded her face.  Smallpox!

I sprang to the king, and said in his ear:

"Out of the door on the instant, sire! the woman is dying of that disease that wasted the skirts
of Camelot two years ago."

He did not budge.

"Of a truth I shall remain--and likewise help."

I whispered again:

"King, it must not be.  You must go."

