THE AUTHOR OF BELTRAFFIO. Nothing had been done in that line from the point of view of art
for art This was my own point of view, I may mention, when I was twenty-five; whether it is
altered now I won't take upon myself to say--especially as the discerning reader will be able
to judge for himself. I used to say to myself that the man who drew those characters and wrote
that style understood what he saw and knew what he was doing. There was just a little of the
Bohemian in his appearance; you would easily have guessed that he belonged to the guild of
artists and men of letters. He seemed both young and old, both anxious and indifferent. She
may be in the garden. They made, as I remember, a kind of curtain at the further end, in one
of the folds of which, as it were, we presently perceived, from afar, a little group. "Ah,
there she is!" said Mark Ambient; "and she has got the boy." He made this last remark in a
slightly different tone from any in which he yet had spoken. But I would not for the world
have betrayed my thought, and, to conceal it, I observed that it must be such a pleasant thing
to have tea in the garden. She was a little cold, and a little shy; but she was very sweet,
and she had a certain look of race, justified by my afterwards learning that she was "connected"
with two or three great families. Afterwards, indeed, I knew a little better; I simply discovered
that he was too charming to live, wondering at the same time that his parents should not have
perceived it, and should not be in proportionate grief and despair.

Mark Ambient paid no attention to the summons, but Dolcino turned round and looked with eyes
of shy entreaty at his mother. "Can't I go with papa?"

"Not when I ask you to stay with me."

"But please don't ask me, mamma," said the child, in his little clear, new voice.

"I must ask you when I want you. Come to me, my darling." "But I have been a great deal with
mamma to-day," he added in a moment. But Mrs. Ambient quickly recovered herself, and said to
me civilly enough that she hoped I did n't mind having had to walk from the station. I reassured
her on this point, and she went on, "We have got a thing that might have gone for you, but
my husband wouldn't order it."

"That gave me the pleasure of a walk with him," I rejoined.

She was silent a minute, and then she said, "I believe the Americans walk very little."

"Yes, we always run," I answered laughingly. "I have the greatest admiration for Mr. Ambient."

"He will like that. He likes being admired."

"He must have a very happy life, then. He has many worshippers."

"For me, you know," I remarked, "he is quite the greatest of living writers."

"Of course I can't judge. Of course he's very clever," said Mrs. Ambient, smiling a little.

"He's magnificent, Mrs. Ambient! There are pages in each of his books that have a perfection
that classes them with the greatest things. There was even in her manner an intimation that
I was rather young, and that people usually got over that sort of thing. "I assure you that
for me this is a red-letter day," I added. "Does n't it promise well?" I inquired.

"No, the trees look very dull. We had such late frosts."

Then there was another pause. "The whole character of it is that of certain places that he
describes. Your house is like one of his pictures."

"It's a pleasant little place. There are hundreds like it"

"Oh, it has got his tone," I said, laughing, and insisting on my point the more that Mrs. Ambient
appeared to see in my appreciation of her simple establishment a sign of limited experience.

It was evident that I insisted too much. "His tone?" she repeated, with a quick look at me,
and a slightly heightened color.

"Surely he has a tone, Mrs. Ambient"

"Oh, yes, he has indeed! But I don't in the least consider that I am living in one of his books;
I should n't care for that, at all," she went on, with a smile which had in some degree the
effect of converting her slightly sharp protest into a joke deficient in point "I am afraid
I am not very literary," said Mrs. Ambient. "And I am not artistic." My only consolation was
in the reflection that it was she, and not I, who had begun it She had brought her idiosyncrasies
into the discussion.

"Well, whatever I am, I am very different from my husband. If you like him, you won't like
me. You need n't say anything. Your liking me is n't in the least necessary!"

"Don't defy me!" I exclaimed. At the end of this I came back, irrepressibly, to Mark Ambient.

"Does n't he like to be there now? But I must either have lost the impression a moment later,
or been goaded by it to further aggression, for I remember asking her whether Mr. Ambient were
in a good vein of work, and when we might look for the appearance of the book on which he was
engaged. I have every reason now to know that she thought me an odious person.

She gave a strange, small laugh as she said, "I am afraid you think I know a great deal more
about my husband's work than I do. 'I'd say it again, Mr. Hanne,' he said. 'I know which side my bread's
buttered. I know when a gen'leman's a gen'leman. Mr. Powl can go to Putney with his one! Beg your
pardon, Mr. Anne, for being so familiar,' said he, blushing suddenly
scarlet.

She hesitated a moment, and I wondered what she could possibly say. She did not speak--I could
see--the first words that rose to her lips; she repeated what she had said a few minutes before.
"Oh, of course he 's very clever!" And with this she got up; her husband and little boy had
reappeared. This later knowledge throws a backward light, and makes me forget that at least
on the occasion of which I am speaking now (I mean that first afternoon), Mark Ambient struck
me as a fortunate man.

"That's an extraordinary little boy of yours," I said. "I have never seen such a child."

"Why do you call him extraordinary?"

"He's so beautiful, so fascinating. He's like a little work of art."

He turned quickly, grasping my arm an instant.

"Ah, if you want visitors who are not struck with you, you should n't ask me down here!"

I laughed, of course, but he had the air of being perfectly serious. "It would be quite the
best thing we could do. I should be quite ready to do it."

"I am greatly obliged to you for your confidence." But I also notice a little, and I have an
idea that--a--" here he smiled and laid his hand on my shoulder, "that even apart from your
nationality, you are not destitute of intelligence! I have only known you half an hour, but--a--"
And here he hesitated again. She wore a faded velvet robe, which clung to her when she moved,
fashioned, as to the neck and sleeves, like the garments of old Venetians and Florentines.
She was a singular, self-conscious, artificial creature, and I never, subsequently, more than
half penetrated her motives and, mysteries. Of one thing I am sure, however: that they were
considerably less extraordinary than her appearance announced. He was the original, and she
was the inevitable imitation. This I only found out afterwards, when I found out some other
things. The impression I received from that repast is present to me still. There were elements
of oddity in my companions, but they were vague and latent, and did n't interfere with my delight
It came mainly, of course, from Ambient's talk, which was the most brilliant and interesting
I had ever heard. I know not whether he laid himself out to dazzle a rather juvenile pilgrim
from over the sea; but it matters little, for it was very easy for him to shine. That it was severe,
I knew; I had already chuckled over that. But that it should be false also! In what sense, dear
sir?'
I believe I was extremely offensive as I put the question, but the
lawyer paid no heed.

'False in all senses of the word,' he replied
seriously. Not
so the two ladies, who not only were very nearly dumb from beginning to the end of the meal,
but who had not the air of being struck with such an exhibition of wit and knowledge. It was
as if she knew in a general way that her brother must be talking very well, but she herself
was so rich in ideas that she had no need to pick them up, and was at liberty to see what would
become of a young American when subjected to a high aesthetic temperature. I perceived that
he had reasons for not wishing to descant upon literature, and suffered him without protest
to deliver himself on certain social topics, which he treated with extraordinary humor and
with constant revelations of that power of ironical portraiture of which his books are full.
He had a great deal to say about London, as London appears to the observer who does n't fear
the accusation of cynicism, during the high-pressure time--from April to July--of its peculiarities.
He flashed his faculty of making the fanciful real and the real fanciful over the perfunctory
pleasures and desperate exertions of so many of his compatriots, among whom there were evidently
not a few types for which he had little love. Miss Ambient's perpetual gaze seemed to say to
me: "Do you perceive how artistic we are? Frankly now, is it possible to be more artistic than
this? But there was no doubt that, for that matter, they were all remarkable, and, with all
allowances, I had never heard anything so artistic. Mark Ambient's conversation seemed to play
over the whole field of knowledge and taste, and to flood it with light and color.

After the ladies had left us he took me into his study to smoke, and here I led him on to talk
freely enough about himself. I confess that my own youthful mind was considerably astonished
at some of his speeches; he startled me and he made me wince. He could not help forgetting,
or rather he could n't know, how little personal contact I had had with the school in which
he was master; and he promoted me at a jump, as it were, to the study of its innermost mysteries.
My trepidations, however, were delightful; they were just what I had hoped for, and their only
fault was that they passed away too quickly; for I found that, as regards most things, I very
soon seized Mark Ambient's point of view. It was the point of view of the artist to whom every
manifestation of human energy was a thrilling spectacle, and who felt forever the desire to
resolve his experience of life into a literary form. Mark Ambient said, with a laugh of which
the bitterness was just perceptible.

"Possibly not; but I know the nature of mothers."

"Beatrice is perfect as a mother," said Miss Ambient, with a tremendous sigh and her fingers
interlaced on her embroidered knees.

"I shall go up and see the child," her brother went on. "Do you suppose he's asleep?"

"Beatrice won't let you see him, Mark," said the young lady, looking at me, though she addressed,
our companion.

"Do you call that being perfect as a mother?" Ambient inquired. We have lived so much abroad.
Have you people like us in America?"

"You are not all alike, surely; so that I don't think I understand your question. We have no
one like your brother--I may go so far as that."

"You have probably more persons like his wife," said Miss Ambient, smiling.

"I can tell you that better when you have told me about her point of view."

"Oh, yes--oh, yes. Then suddenly there was a strange alteration in her face; she gave a smile
that was more joyless than her gravity--a conscious, insincere smile, and added, "When one
has children, it's a great responsibility--what one writes."

"Children are terrible critics," I answered. "I am rather glad I have n't got any." He looked
flushed and serious, and I supposed that he had seen something to alarm him in the condition
of his child.

"No, but I 'm disappointed. She won't let me in. She has locked the door, and I 'm afraid to
make a noise." I suppose there might have been something ridiculous in a confession of this
kind, but I liked my new friend so much that for me it did n't detract from his dignity. "She
tells me--from behind the door--that she will let me know if he is worse." I was just quitting
him when the door of his study was noiselessly pushed open, and Mrs. Ambient stood before us.
Mrs. Ambient looked slightly discomfited, and for a moment I thought she was going to give
chase to her husband.

PART II. She might have been posing for her photograph. We walked through the shrubberies together,
and she gave me a great deal of information about her brother's ménage, which offered me an
opportunity to mention to her that his wife had told me, the night before, that she thought
his productions objectionable.

"She does n't usually come out with that so soon!" Miss Ambient exclaimed, in answer to this
piece of gossip. "Poor lady, she saw that I am a fanatic." "Yes, she won't like you for that.

"She's very beautiful," I answered; while I reflected that though it was true, apparently,
that Mark Ambient was mismated, it was also perceptible that his sister was perfidious. And
Mark does n't make love to other people, either. Mrs. Ambient did not appear at breakfast,
being rather tired with her ministrations, during the night, to Dolcino. Her husband mentioned,
however, that she was hoping to go to church. I afterwards learned that she did go, but I may
as well announce without delay that he and I did not accompany her. It was while the church-bell
was murmuring in the distance that the author of Beltraffio led me forth for the ramble he
had spoken of in his note. I will not attempt to say where we went, or to describe what we
saw. "At least the people who dislike my prose--and there are a great many of them, I believe--will
dislike this work most" This was the first time I had heard him allude to the people who couldn't
read him,--a class which is supposed always to sit heavy upon the consciousness of the man
of letters. Of course he may have thought about them--the newspapers--night and day; the only
point I wish to make is that he did n't show it; while, at the same time, he did n't strike
one as a man who was on his guard. I am pretty sure, however, that he had, at the moment of
which I speak, no sense of failure; he was in love with his idea, which was indeed magnificent,
and though for him, as, I suppose, for every artist, the act of execution had in it as much
torment as joy, he saw his work growing a little every day and filling-out the largest plan
he had yet conceived. No, you may say what you will, I have always arranged things too much,
always smoothed them down and rounded them off and tucked them in,--done everything to them
that life does n't do. I have been a slave to the old superstitions."

"You a slave, my dear Mark Ambient? You have the freest imagination of our day!"

"All the more shame to me to have done some of the things I have! When I rap it with my knuckles
it doesn't give the right sound. There are horrible little flabby spots where I have taken
the second-best word, because I could n't for the life of me think of the best. If you knew
how stupid I am sometimes! If Mark Ambient did really, as I suggested above, have imaginative
contact with "all life," I, for my part, envy him his arriere-pensée.

"And meanwhile do you propose to hide them,--to lock them up in a drawer?" Mrs. Ambient had
inquired.

"Good ones--certainly not!" said my companion. I suppose I had had other views, for I remember
saying that, for myself, I was not sure it was bad for them, if the novels were "good" enough.
"Bad for them, I don't say so much!" Ambient exclaimed. "But very bad, I am afraid, for the
novel!" I don't know what she has got on her back! And she's so pretty, too, herself! Don't
you think she's lovely? She was, at any rate, when I married her. "Oh, it doesn't matter, after
all," he said, laughing; which I was glad to hear, for I was reproaching myself with having
excited him. I am obliged to say that the signs of a fanatical temperament were not more striking
in my hostess than before; it was only after a while that her air of incorruptible conformity,
her tapering, monosyllabic correctness, began to appear to be themselves a cold, thin flame.
Mark Ambient, apparently, ten years before, had simply perceived that she was an angel, without
asking himself of what He had been quite right in calling my attention to her beauty. In looking
for the reason why he should have married her, I saw, more than before, that she was, physically
speaking, a wonderfully cultivated human plant--that she must have given him many ideas and
images. From him I learned that my uncle was extremely low, a doctor in close attendance, Mr.
Romaine expected at any moment, and that my cousin, the Vicomte de
St. Yves, had been sent for the same morning.

'It was a sudden seizure,
then?' I asked.

If I had had it in my heart to think Ambient a little of a hypocrite for appearing to forget
at table everything he had said to me during our walk, I should instantly have cancelled such
a judgment, on reflecting that the good news his wife was able to give him about their little
boy was reason enough for his sudden air of happiness. It may have come partly, too, from a
certain remorse at having complained to me of the fair lady who sat there,--a desire to show
me that he was after all not so miserable. Dolcino continued to be much better, and he had
been promised he should come downstairs after he had had his dinner.

"In art, of course I do!"

"And do you think beauty is everything?"

"I don't know about its being everything. But it's very delightful"

"Of course it is difficult for a woman to know how far to go," said my companion. "And one
must be good, at any rate, must not one?" she inquired, with a cadence apparently intended
for an assurance that my answer would settle this recondite question for her. It was difficult
for me to make it very original, and I am afraid I repaid her confidence with an unblushing
platitude. I remember, moreover, appending to it an inquiry, equally destitute of freshness,
and still more wanting perhaps in tact, as to whether she did not mean to go to church, as
that was an obvious way of being good. I have seen him, and he's not at all right."

"Surely his mother would know, would n't she?" I suggested. She answered me with a smile of
extraordinary significance, and told me that I must have very little idea of what her relations
with Beatrice were; but I must do her the justice to add that she went on to make herself a
little more comprehensible by saying that it was quite reason enough for her sister not to
be alarmed that Mark would be sure to be. He was always nervous about the child, and as they
were predestined by nature to take opposite views, the only thing for Beatrice was to cultivate
a false optimism. If Mark were not there, she would not be at all easy. I remembered what he
had said to me about their dealings with Dolcino,--that between them they would put an end
to him; but I did not repeat this to Miss Ambient: the less so that just then her brother emerged
from the house, carrying his child in his arms. Close behind him moved his wife, grave and
pale; the boy's face was turned over Ambient's shoulder, towards his mother. We got up to receive
the group, and as they came near us Dolcino turned round. I caught, on his enchanting little
countenance, a smile of recognition, and for the moment would have been quite content with
it. "It won't do at all--it won't do at all," she said to me under her breath. "I shall speak
to Mark about the doctor."

"Should you like to stand on your feet, my boy?" his father asked.

"Oh, yes; I 'm remarkably well," said the child. I remained with Mrs. Ambient; but as a servant
had brought out a couple of chairs I was not obliged to seat myself beside her. When he looked
at me he smiled, and I felt it was an absolute impossibility to abandon a child who was smiling
at one like that. His eyes never wandered; they attached themselves to mine, as if among all
the small incipient things of his nature there was a desire to say something to me. If I could
have taken him upon my own knee, he perhaps would have managed to say it; but it would have
been far too delicate a matter to ask his mother to give him up, and it has remained a constant
regret for me that on that Sunday afternoon I did not, even for a moment, hold Dolcino in my
arms. He had said that he felt remarkably well, and that he was especially happy; but though
he may have been happy, with his charming head pillowed on his mother's breast, and his little
crimson silk legs depending from her lap, I did not think he looked well.

"I 'm not ill, papa; I 'm much better now," Dolcino remarked.

"Is that the truth, or are you only saying it to be agreeable? You have a great idea of being
agreeable, you know."

"Then why don't you hop about, if you feel so lusty?" Ambient went on, while the boy swung
his hand.

"Because mamma is holding me close!"

"Oh, yes; I know how mamma holds you when I come near!" Ambient exclaimed, looking at his wife.

She turned her charming eyes up to him, without deprecation or concession, and after a moment
she said, "You can go for Allingham if you like, I think myself it would be better. You ought
to drive."

"She says that to get me away," Ambient remarked to me, laughing; after which he started for
the doctor's.

I remained there with Mrs. Ambient, though our conversation had more pauses than speeches.
How is it possible that she should n't have it? How is it possible that I should have so much
of it (for I am quite full of it, dear, strange gentleman), if it were not also in some degree
in her? Nevertheless, a quarter of an hour after Mark had left us, I said to his wife that
I could n't get over what she told me the night before about her thinking her husband's writings
"objectionable." I had been so very sorry to hear it, had thought of it constantly, and wondered
whether it were not possible to make her change her mind. Mrs. Ambient gave me rather a cold
stare; she seemed to be recommending me to mind my own business. I wish I had taken this mute
counsel, but I did not. I went on to remark that it seemed an immense pity so much that was
beautiful should be lost upon her.

"Nothing is lost upon me," said Mrs. Ambient "I know they are very beautiful." "I know some
that are very interesting." "When will you tell them? To-morrow?" "To-morrow, with pleasure,
if that suits you." Mrs. Ambient was silent at this. "You say you have n't looked at them.
I think it 's such a pity you should n't Do let me beg you to take them up. A more unpromising
night for a journey it was hard to conceive. But in the course of the afternoon the horses had
been well roughed; and King (for such was the name of the shock-headed lad) was very positive
that he could drive us without misadventure.

"Do read them, mamma!" I offered to carry him, and held out my hands to take him; but she thanked
me and turned away with the child seated on her arm, his head on her shoulder.

"Is this the new book?" she asked, holding it up. My triumph, too, suddenly seemed to me rather
vain. A woman who could n't smile in the right place would never understand Mark Ambient. He
came in at last in person, having brought the doctor back with him.

"My dear lady, he was very happy there," I answered, much appalled.

"He would be happy anywhere. I have no doubt he is happy now, with his poor little throat in
a state--" she dropped her voice as her brother came in, and Mark let us know that, as a matter
of course, Mrs. Ambient would not appear.

"Excuse me, but as a friend of the family, I should like very much to hear about the little boy."

The doctor, who was a stout, sharp man, looked at me from head to foot, and then he said, "I'm
sorry to say I have n't seen him."

"Have n't seen him?" And he started his horse again with the whip.

I must relate very briefly the circumstances of the rest of my visit to Mark Ambient,--it lasted
but a few hours longer,--and devote but three words to my later acquaintance with him. I believe
he never suspected it, though of this I am not absolutely sure. "In Heaven's name what has
got possession of Beatrice?" he cried at last, turning round with an almost haggard face. And
he looked from one of us to the other; the appeal was addressed to me as well as to his sister.
Ambient went on.

"She refused to let the doctor see him an hour ago!" Miss Ambient remarked, with intention,
as they say on the stage.

"Refused to let the doctor see him? By heaven, I 'll smash in the door!" But in a moment I
saw that her emotion was real. Dolcino got much worse, but she insisted on the nurse's going
back to bed, and after that she was alone with him for hours." There was an amazing coherency
in her story, and it was dreadful to me to see myself figuring in it as so proximate a cause.

"You are a very strange woman, and you say strange things."

"You think it necessary to protest, but you are quite ready to believe me. You have received
an impression of my sister-in-law, you have guessed of what she is capable." Basta, as he used
to say. And, à propos of consciences, the reader is now in a position to judge of my compunction
for my effort to convert Mrs. Ambient.

