[Footnote 3295: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3190. Letter of Danton, Oct. 9.--Memorandum of M.
Casimir Audiffret (with documents in support of it). His son had been locked up by mistake,
instead of another Audiffret, belonging to the Comtat; he was slashed with a saber in prison
Aug.25. Report of the surgeon, Oct. 17: "The wounded man has two gashes more on the head, one
on the left cheek and the right leg is paralyzed; he has been so roughly treated in carrying
him from prison to prison as to bring on an abscess on the wrist; if he is kept there he will
soon die."]

[Footnote 3296: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3195. Letter of M. Amiel, president of the bureau
of conciliation, Oct. 28.--Letter of an inhabitant of Avignon, Oct. 7.--Other letters without
signatures.--Letter of M. Gilles, juge-de-paix, Jan. 23, 1793.]

[Footnote 3297: Fabre, "Histoire de Marseilles," II. 478 and following pages.--"Archives Nationales,"
F7, 3195. Letter of the Minister of Justice, M. de Joly (with supporting documents), Aug. 6.--Official
reports of the Marseilles municipality, July 21, 22, 23.--Official report of the municipality
of Aix, Aug. 24.--Letter of the syndic-attorney of the department (with a letter of the municipality
of Aubagne), Sept. 22, etc., in which M. Jourdan, a ministerial officer, is accused of "aristocracy."
A guard is assigned to him. About midnight the guard is overcome, he is carried off, and then
killed in spite of the entreaties of his wife and son. The letter of the municipality ends
with the following: "Their lamentations pierced our hearts. But, alas, who can resist the French
people when aroused? We remain, gentlemen, very cordially yours, the municipal officers of
Aubagne."]

[Footnote 3298: This stage of revolution seems to be sought after by the secret communist revolutionaries
arranging for the break-up of formerly powerful independent states such as Germany, Yougoslavia,
India etc. (SR).]

[Footnote 3299: Moniteur, XIII. 560. Act passed by the administrators of the Bouches-du-Rhône,
Aug. 3, "forbidding special collectors from henceforth paying taxes with the national treasury."--Ibid.,
744. A report by Roland. The department of Var, having called a meeting of commissaries at
Avignon to provide for the defense of these regions, the Minister says: "This step, subversive
of all government, nullifies the general regulations of the executive power."--"Archives Nationales,"
F7, 3195. Deliberation of the three administrative bodies assembled at Marseilles, Nov. 5,
1792.--Petition of Anselme, a citizen of Avignon, residing in Paris, Dec. 14.--Report of the
Saint-Rémy affair, etc.]

[Footnote 32100: "Archives Nationales," CII. I. 32. Official Report of the Electoral Assembly
of Bouches-du-Rhône, Sept. 4. "Perfection in a road," he says, "would be a plain, level, hard surface;"
and in another passage--"Hardness, therefore, and consequently the absence of dust and dirt, which
is easily crushed or displaced, is the grand desideratum in roads." The expenses
of this expedition will be borne by the anti-revolutionary agitators who have made it necessary.
A list, therefore, is to be drawn up and sent to the National Assembly. The commissioners will
be empowered to suspend the district administrations, municipal officers, and generally all
public functionaries who, through incivism or improper conduct, shall have endangered the public
weal. They may even arrest them as well as suspected citizens. They will see that the law regarding
the disarming of suspected citizens and the banishment of priests be faithfully executed."--Ibid.,
F7, 3195. Letter of Truchement, commissary of the department, Nov. 15.--Memorandum of the community
of Eyguières and letter of the municipality of Eyguières, Sept. 13.--Letter of M. Jaubert,
secretary of the Salon popular club, Oct. 22: "The department of Bouches-du-Rhône has for a
month past been ravaged by commissions. .. The despotism of one is abolished, and we now stagger
under the much more burdensome yoke of a crowd of despots."--Situation of the department in
September and October, 1792 (with supporting documents).]

[Footnote 32101: Barbaroux, "Mémoires," 89.]

[Footnote 32102: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3196.--Letters and petition of citizen de Sades,
Nov., 1792, Feb.17, 1793, and Ventose 8, year III.: "Towards the middle of Sept., 1792 (old
style), some Marseilles brigands broke into a house of mine near Apt. Not content with carrying
away six loads of furniture.. they broke the mirrors and wood-work." The damage is estimated
at 80,000 francs. Report of the executive council according to the official statement of the
municipality of Coste. On the 27th of September Montbrion, commissioner of the administration
of the Bouche-du-Rhône, sends two messengers to fetch the furniture to Apt. On reaching Apt
Montbrion and his colleague Bergier have the vehicles unloaded, putting the most valuable effects
on one cart, which they appropriate to themselves, and drive away with it to some distance
out of sight, paying the driver out of their own pockets: "No doubt whatever exists as to the
knavery of Montbrion and Bergier; administrators and commissioners of the administration of
the department."--De Sades, the author of "Justine," pleads his well-known civism and the ultra-revolutionary
petitions drawn up by him in the name of the section of the Pikes.]

[Footnote 32103: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3272. Read in this file the entire correspondence
of the directory and the public prosecutor.]

[Footnote 32104: Deliberation of the commune of Toulon. July 28 and following days.--That of
the three administrative bodies, Sep. 10--Lauvergne, "Histoire du department du Var," 104-137.]

[Footnote 32105: "Mémoires" of Chancelier Pasquier. Vol. I. p. 106. Librarie Plon, Paris 1893--Pasquier
and his wife stopped in Picardy, brought to Paris by a member of the commune, a small, bandy-legged
fellow formerly a chair-letter in his parish church, imbued with the doctrines of the day and
a determined leveler. At the village of Saralles they passed the house of M. de Livry, a rich
man enjoying an income of 50,000 francs, and the lover of Saunier, an opera-dancer. "He is
a good fellow," exclaims Pasquier's bandy-legged guardian: "we have just made hint marry. Look
here, we said to him, it is time that to put a stop to that behavior! Down with prejudice!
Marquises and dancers ought to marry each other. He made her his wife, and it is well he did;
otherwise he would have been done for a long time ago, or caged behind the Luxembourg walls."--Elsewhere,
on passing a chateau being demolished, the former chair-letter quotes Rousseau: "For every
chateau that falls, twenty cottages rise in its place." His mind was stored with similar phrases
and tirades, uttered by him as the occasion warranted. This man may be considered as an excellent
specimen of the average Jacobin.]

[Footnote 32106: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3,207. Letter of the administrators of the Côte
d'Or to the Minister, Oct. 6, 1792.]

[Footnote 32107: "Archives Nationales" F7, 3195. Letter of the administrators of the Bouche-du-Rhône,
Oct 29, and the Minister's answer on the margin.]

[Footnote 32108: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3249. Letter of the administrators of the Orne,
Sept. 7, and the Minister's reply noted on the margin.]

[Footnote 32109: "Archives Nationales," F', 3,249. Correspondence with the municipality of
Saint-Firmin (Oise). Letter of Roland, Dec. 3: "I have read the letter addressed to me on the
25th of the past month, and I cannot conceal from you the pain it gives me to find in it principles
so destructive of all the ties of subordination existing between constituted authorities, principles
so erroneous that should the communes adopt them every form of government would be impossible
and all society broken up. Can the commune of Saint-Firmin, indeed, have persuaded itself that
it is sovereign, as the letter states? and have the citizens composing it forgotten that the
sovereign is the entire nation, and not the forty-four thousandth part of it? that Saint-Firmin
is simply a fraction of it, contributing its share to endowing the deputies of the National
Convention, the administrators of departments and districts with the power of acting for the
greatest advantage of the commune, but which, the moment it elects its own administrators and
agents, can no longer revoke the powers it has bestowed, without a total subversion of order?
etc."--All the documents belonging to this affair ought to be quoted; there is nothing more
instructive or ludicrous, and especially the style of the secretary-clerk of Saint-Firmin:
"We conjure you to remember that the administrators of the district of Senlis strive to play
the part of the sirens who sought to enchant Ulysses."]

[Footnote 32110: Letter of the central bureau of the Rouen sections, Aug. 30.]

[Footnote 32111: "Archives Nationales," F7, 3195. Letter of the three administrative bodies
and commissaries of the sections of Marseilles, Nov. 15, 1792. Letter of the electors of Bouches-du-Rhône,
Nov. 28.--(Forms of politeness are omitted at the end of these letters, and no doubt purposely.)
Roland replies (Dec. 31): "While fully admiring the civism of the brave Marseilles people,...
do not fully agree with you on the exercise of popular Sovereignty." He ends by stating that
all their letters with replies have been transmitted to the deputies of the Bouches-du-Rhône,
and that the latter are in accord with him and will arrange matters.]

CHAPTER III.

I.--The second stage of the Jacobin conquest.

     The importance and multitude of vacant offices.

The second stage of the Jacobin conquest will,[3301] after August 10th and during the next
three months, extend and multiply all vacancies from the top to the bottom of the hierarchy,
for the purpose of filling them with their own men.--In the first place, the faction (the party)
installs representatives on the summits of public authority which represent itself alone, seven
hundred and forty-nine omnipotent deputies, in a Convention which, curbed neither by collateral
powers nor by a previously established constitution, disposes at pleasure of the property,
the lives and the consciences of all French people.--Then, through this barely installed convention,
it decrees the complete renewal[3302] of all administrative and judicial bodies, councils and
directories of departments, councils and communal municipalities, civil, criminal and commercial
tribunals, justices and their assistants in the lower courts, deputies of the justices, national
commissaries of the civil courts, with secretaries and bailiffs belonging to the various tribunals
and administrations.[3303] The obligation of having practiced as a lawyer is abolished by the
same stroke, so that the first comer, if he belongs to the club (party) may become a judge
without knowing how to write, and even without being able to read.[3304]--Just before this
the staff of the National Guard, in all towns above fifty thousand souls, and afterwards in
all the towns on the frontier, has again passed through the electoral sieve.[3305] In like
manner, the officers of the gendarmerie at Paris and throughout France once more undergo an
election by their men. To the mind which, for fourteen years, has watched, guided, and governed
the work, looking out upon it through physical organs almost fatally smitten in its prosecution,
we bring our eager and unanimous tribute of honor and applause. He who took up, elaborated, and has
brought to fulfillment the plans of the father whose own life had been sacrificed in their furtherance,
has builded to both the noblest memorial. He may with truth have said, heretofore, as the furnaces
have glowed from which this welded network has come, in the words of Schiller's "Lay of the Bell:"

"Deep
hid within the nether cell What Force with Fire is moulding thus,
In yonder airy towers shall dwell, And witness wide and far of us." At Troyes, out of fifteen
notaries, it is refused to four,[3306] which leaves four places to be filled by their Jacobin
clerks. At Paris,[3307] "all honest folks, all clerks who are educated," are driven out of
the navy offices; the war department is getting to be "a den where everybody on duty wears
a red cap, where all thee-and-thou each other, even the Minister, where four hundred employees,
among which are a number of women, show off in the dirtiest dress, affect the coolest cynicism,
do nothing, and steal on all sides."--Under the denunciation of the clubs, the broom is applied
even at the bottom of the hierarchical scale, even to secretaries of village councils, to messengers
and call-boys in the towns, to jail-keepers and door-keepers, to beadles and sextons, to foresters,
field-custodians, and others of this class.[3308] All these persons must be, or appear to be,
Jacobin; otherwise, their place slips away from them, for there is always some one to covet
it, apply for it and take it.--Outside of employees the sweeping operation reaches the suppliers
and contractors; even here there are the faithful to be provided for, and nowhere is the bait
so important. The State, even in ordinary times, is always the largest of consumers, and, at
this moment, it is expending monthly, merely on the war, two hundred millions extra. What fish
may be caught in such disturbed waters![3309]--All these lucrative orders as well as all these
remunerated positions are at the disposition of the Jacobins, and they seize the opportunity;
they are the lawful owner, who comes home after a long absence and gives or withdraws his custom
as the pleases, while he makes a clean sweep in his own household.--The administrative and
judicial services alone number 1,300,000 places, all those in the treasury department, in that
of public works, in that of public education, and in the Church; all posts in the National
Guard and in the army, from that of commander-in-chief down to a drummer; the whole of the
central or local power, with the vast patronage flowing from this. Never had such rich spoils
been made available to the general public in one go. Lots will be drawn, apparently, by vote;
but it is evident that the Jacobins have no intention of surrendering their prey to the hazards
of a free ballot; they mean to keep it the way they got it; by force, and will leave no stone
unturned to control the elections.

II.--The elections.

     The young and the poor invited to the ballot-box.--Danger of
     the Conservatives if candidates.--Their chiefs absent
     themselves.--Proportion of absentees at the primary
     assemblies.

They begin by paving their way.[3310] A new decree has at once suppressed the feeble and last
legal requirement for impartiality, integrity and competence of the elector and the eligible
candidate. No more discrimination between active and passive citizens; no longer any difference
between poll tax of an elector of the first degree and that of the second degree: no electoral
poll tax qualification whatever. All Frenchmen, except domestics, of whom they are distrustful,
supposing them under their employer's influence, may vote at the primary assemblies, and not
longer at the age of twenty-five, but at twenty-one, which brings to the polls the two most
revolutionary groups, on the one hand the young, and on the other the poor, the latter in great
numbers in these times of unemployment, dearth and poverty, amounting in all to two millions
and a half, and, perhaps, three millions of new electors.--At Besançon the number of the registered
voters is doubled.[3311]--Thus are the usual clients of the Jacobins admitted within the electoral
boundaries, from which they had hitherto been excluded,[3312] and, to ensure their coming,
their leaders decide that every elector obliged to travel "shall receive twenty sous mileage,"
besides "three francs per diem during his stay."[3313]

While attracting their supporters they drove their adversaries away. The political banditry,
through which they dominate and terrify France, has already taken care of that. Many arbitrary
arrests and unpunished murders are a warning to all candidates who do not belong to their party;
and I do not speak about to the nobles or friends of the ancient regime that have fled or are
in prison, but the Constitutionalists and the Feuillants. Any electoral enterprise on their
part would be madness, almost a suicide. Accordingly, none of them call attention to themselves.
If any outrageous moderate, like Durand de Maillane, appears on a list, it is because the revolutionaries
have adopted him without knowing him, and because he swears that he hates royalty.[3314] The
others, more honest, do not want to don the popular livery and resort to club patronage, so
they carefully stay away; they know too well that to do otherwise would mark their heads for
pikes and their homes for pillage. At the very moment of depositing the vote the domains of
several deputies are sacked simply because, "on the comparative lists of seven calls by name,"
sent to the departments from Paris by the Jacobins, their names are found on the right.[3315]--Through
an excess of precaution the Constitutionalists of the Legislative body are kept at the capital,
their passports being refused to them to prevent them from returning into the provinces and
obtaining votes by publicly stating the truth in relation to the recent revolution.--In the
same way, all conservative journals are suppressed, reduced to silence, or compelled to become
turncoats.--Now, when one has neither the possibility to speak up nor a candidate which might
become one's representative, of what use is it to vote? And especially, since the primary assemblies
are places of disorder and violence,[3316] patriots alone, in many places, being admitted,[3317]
a conservative being "insulted and overwhelmed with numbers," and, if he utters an opinion,
exposed to danger, also, if he remains silent, incurring the risk of denunciations, threats,
and blows. To keep in the background, remain on the sidelines, avoid being seen, and to strive
to be forgotten, is the rule under a pasha, and especially when this pasha is a mob. Hence
the absenteeism of the majority; around the ballot-box there is an enormous void. At Paris,
in the election of mayor and municipal officers, the balloting of October, November and December
collect together only 14,000 out of 160,000 registered voters, later 10,000, and, later again,
only 7,000.[3318] At Besançon, 7,000. registered voters result in less than 600; there is the
same proportion in other towns, as for example, in Troyes. In like manner, in the rural cantons,
east of Doubs and west of Loire-Inférieure, but one-tenth of the electors dare exercise their
right to vote.[3319] The electoral source is so exhausted, so often disturbed, and so stopped
up as to be almost dry: in these primary assemblies which, directly or indirectly, delegate
all public powers, and which, in the expression of the common will, should be full, there are
lacking six millions three hundred thousands electors out of seven millions.[3320]

III.--Composition and tone of the secondary assemblies.

     Exclusion of "Feuillant" electors.--Pressure on other
     electors.--Persons elected by the conservatives obliged to
     resign.--Elections by the Catholics canceled.--Secession of
     the Jacobin minorities.--The election of their men made
     valid.--Public opinion not in accord with official
     selections.

Through this anticipated purge the assemblies of the first degree find themselves, for the
most part, Jacobin; consequently the electors of the second degree, appointed by them, are
for the most part, Jacobin; in many departments, their assembly becomes the most anarchical,
the most turbulent, and the most usurping of all the clubs. Here there is only shouting, denunciations,
oath-taking, incendiary motions, cheering which carry all questions, furious speeches by Parisian
commissaries, by delegates from the local club, by passing Federates, and by female wretches
demanding arms.[3321] The Pas-de-Calais assemblage sets free and applauds a woman imprisoned
for having beaten a drum in a mob. The Paris assembly fraternizes with the Versailles slaughterers
and the assassins of the mayor of Etampes. The assembly of the Bouches-du-Rhône gives a certificate
o virtue to Jourdan, the Glacière murderer. The assembly of Seine-et-Marne applauds the proposal
to cast a cannon which might contain the head of Louis XVI. for a cannon-ball to be fired at
the enemy.--It is not surprising that an electoral body without self-respect should respect
nothing, and practice self-mutilation under the pretext of purification.[3322] The object of
the despotic majority was to reign at once, without any contest, on its own authority, and
to expel all offensive electors. At Paris, in the Aisne, in Haute-Loire, in Ille-et-Vilaine,
in Maine-et-Loire, it excludes as unworthy the members of old Feuillants and monarchical clubs,
and the signers of Constitutionalist protests. In Hérault it cancels the elections in the canton
of Servian, because the elected men, it says, are "mad aristocrats." In Orne it drives away
an old Constituent, Goupil de Préfeln, because he voted for the revision, also, his son-in-law,
because he is his son-in-law. For less than a third of the sum, the distance could have been laid
down in wood without interfering with the traffic of the present road; for one great advantage
of the proposed method consists in this, that by setting aside a portion of the present highway,
where it is wide enough, or widening it a few feet where it is too narrow, the turnpike would
derive a considerable income from the steam-coaches, and the traffic would continue in its accustomed
channels. At Paris, and in at least nine departments,[3323] and in contempt of the law,
is suppresses the secret ballot, the last refuge of timid conservatives, and imposes on each
elector a verbal public vote, loud and clear, on his name being called; that is to say, if
he does not vote as he ought to, he risks the gallows.[3324] Nothing could more surely convert
hesitation and indecision into good sense, while, in many a place, still more powerful machinery
is violently opposed to the elections. At Paris the elections are carried on in the midst of
atrocities, under the pikes of the butchers, and con ducted by their instigators. At Meaux
and at Rheims the electors in session were within hearing of the screeches of the murdered
priests. At Rheims the butchers themselves ordered the electoral assembly to elect their candidates,
Drouet, the famous post-master, and Armonville, a tipsy wool-carder, upon which one-half of
the assembly withdrew, while the two candidates of the assassins are elected. At Lyons, two
days after the massacre, the Jacobin commander writes to the Minister: "Yesterday's catastrophe
puts the aristocrats to flight, and ensures us the majority in Lyons."[3325] From universal
suffrage thus subjected to so much sifting, submitted to such heavy pressure, heated and refined
in the revolutionary alembic, those who control it obtain all they want, a concentrated extract,
the quintessence of the Jacobin spirit.

And yet, should this extract not seem to them sufficiently strong, wherever they are sovereign,
they throw it away and begin over again. At Paris,[3326] by means of a purifying and surplus
ballot, the new Council of the Commune undertakes the expulsion of its lukewarm members, while
d'Ormesson, the mayor elect of the moderates, is assailed with so many threats that, on the
verge of his installation, he resigns. At three miles an hour, the horse is the most perfect locomotive
machine; but if his velocity be increased to ten, most of his power is consumed in moving
himself. The average exertion in each horse in a four-horse heavy coach, is calculated by the author
of the excellent Treatise on Draught, appended to the work published on the Horse by the Society
for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, not to be equal to a strain of more than 62-1/2 lbs., and
at twelve miles an hour to be barely 40 lbs.
 The Jacobin minority frequently secede, meet
in a tavern, elect their mayor or justice of the peace, and the validity of his election is
secured because he is a patriot; so much the worse for that of the majority, whose more numerous
votes are null because given by "fanatics."--The response of universal suffrage thus appealed
to cannot be other than that which is framed for it. Indisputable facts are to show to what
extent this response is compulsive or perverted, what a distance there is between an official
choice and public opinion, how the elections give a contrary meaning to popular sentiment.
The departments of Deux-Sèvres, Maine-et-Loire, la Vendée, Loire-Infèrieure, Morbihan, and
Finistère, send only anti-Catholic republicans to the Convention, while these same departments
are to become the inexhaustible nursery of the great catholic and royalist insurrection. Three
regicides out of four deputies represent Lozère, where, six months later, thirty thousand peasants
are to march under the Royal white banner. Six regicides out of nine deputies represent la
Vendée, which is going to rise from one end of it to the other in the name of the King.[3329]

IV.--Composition of the National Convention.

     Number of Montagnards at the start.--Opinions and sentiments
     of the deputies of the Plain.--The Gironde.--Ascendancy of
     the Girondins in the Convention.--Their intellectual
     character.--Their principles.--The plan of their
     Constitution.--Their fanaticism.--Their sincerity, culture
     and tastes.--How they differ from pure Jacobins.--How they
     comprehend popular sovereignty.--Their stipulations with
     regard to the initiative of individuals and of groups.--
     Weakness of philosophic thought and of parliamentary
     authority in times of anarchy.

However vigorous the electoral pressure may have been, the voting machine has not provided
the expected results. At the opening of the session, out of 749 deputies, only about fifty[3330]
are found to approve of the Commune, nearly all of the elected in places where, as at Rheims
and Paris, terror has the elector by the throat, "under the clubs, axes, daggers, and bludgeons
of the butchers."[3331] But where the physical impressions of murder have not been so tangible
and impressive, some sense of decency has prevented too glaring elections. The inclination
to vote for well-known names could not wholly be arrested; seventy-seven former members of
the Constituent Assembly, and one hundred and eighty-six of the previous Legislative Assembly
enter the Convention, and the practical knowledge which many of these have of government business
has given them some insights. In short, the consciences of six hundred and fifty deputies are
only in part perverted.

They are all, unquestionably, decided republicans, enemies of tradition, apostles of reason,
and trained in deductive politics; only on these conditions could they be elected. Every candidate
is supposed to possess the Jacobin faith, or, at least, to recite the revolutionary creed.
The Convention, consequently, at its opening session votes unanimously, with cheers and enthusiasm,
the abolition of royalty, and three months later it pronounces, by a large majority, Louis XVI.,

"guilty of conspiring against the liberty of the nation, and of assaults on the general welfare
of the State."[3332]

Nevertheless, social habitudes still subsist under political prejudices. A man who is born
in and lives for a long time in an old community, is, through this alone, marked with its imprint;
the customs to which he conforms have crystallized in him in the shape of sentiments: if it
is well-regulated and civilized, he has involuntarily arrived at respect for property and for
human life, and, in most characters, this respect has taken very deep root. A theory, even
if adopted, does not wholly succeed in destroying this respect; only in rare instances is it
successful, when it encounters coarse and defective natures; to take full hold, it is necessary
that it should fall on the scattered inheritors of former destructive appetites, on those hopelessly
degenerate souls in which the passions of an anterior date are slumbering; then only does its
malevolence fully appear, for it rouses the ferocious or plundering instincts of the barbarian,
the raider, the inquisitor, and the pasha. On the contrary, with the greatest number, do what
it will, integrity and humanity always remain powerful motives. Nearly all these legislators,
who originate in the middle class, are at bottom, irrespective of a momentary delusion, what
they always have been up to now, advocates, attorneys, merchants, priests, or physicians of
the ancient regime, and what they will become later on, docile administrators or zealous functionaries
of Napoleon's empire,[3333] that is to say, ordinary civilized persons belonging to the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries, sufficiently honest in private life to have a desire to be equally
so in public life.--Hence their horror of anarchy, of Marat,[3334] and of the September butchers
and robbers. The author of the Treatise on Draught, accordingly, concludes against the use of
steam-carriages on common roads, chiefly on account of their want of uniform hardness and smoothness,
and the consequent wear and tear of the coach.
 Pétition is elected as their first president by "almost the totality of suffrages."
Roland who has just read his report to them, is greeted with the "loudest" applause from nearly
the "entire" Assembly. In short they are for the ideal republic against actual brigands. This
accounts for their ranging themselves around those upright and sincere deputies, who, in the
two preceding Assemblies or alongside of them, were the ablest defenders of both principles
and humanity, around Buzot, Lanjuinais, Pétition, and Rabaut-Saint-Etienne; around Brissot,
Vergniaud, Guadet, Gensonné, Isnard, and Condorcet; around Roland, Louvet, Barbaroux, and the
five hundred deputies of the "Plain,"[3335] marching in one body under the leadership of the
180 Girondists who now form the "Right."[3336]

These latter, among the republicans, are the most sincere and have the most faith; for they
have long been such, after much thought, study and as a matter of principle. Nearly all of
them are well-read educated men, reasoners, philosophers, disciples of Diderot or of Rousseau,
satisfied that absolute truth had been revealed by their masters, thoroughly imbued with the
Encyclopédie[3337] or the Contrat Social, the same as the Puritans formerly were with the Bible.[3338]
At the age when the mind is maturing, and fondly clings to general ideas,[3339] they embraced
the theory and aimed at a reconstruction of society according to abstract principles. They
have accordingly set to work as pure logicians, rigorously applying the superficial and false
system of analysis then in vogue.[3340] They have formed for themselves an idea of man in general,
the same in all times and ages, an extract or minimum of man; they have pondered over several
thousands of or millions of these abstract mortals, erected their imaginary wills into primordial
rights, and drawn up in anticipation the chimerical contract which is to regulate their impossible
union. There are to be no more privileges, no more heredity, no qualifications of any kind;
all are to be electors, all eligible and all of equal members of the sovereignty; all powers
are to be of short date, and conferred through election; there must be but one assembly, elected
and entirely renewed annually, one executive council elected and one-half renewed annually,
a national treasury-board elected and one-third renewed annually; all local administrations
and tribunals must be elected; a referendum to the people, the electoral body endowed with
the initiative, a constant appeal to the sovereignty, which, always consulted and always active,
will manifest its will not alone by the choice of its mandatories but, again, through "the
censure" which it will apply to the laws--such is the Constitution they forge for themselves.[3341]
"The English Constitution," says Condorcet, "is made for the rich, that of America for citizens
well-off; the French Constitution should be made for all men."--It is, for this reason, the
only legitimate one; every institution that deviates from it is opposed to natural rights and,
therefore, fit only to be put down.-This is what the Girondists have done during the Legislative
sessions; we know how they, armed with the illusions[3342] of their new philosophy and triumphing
through a rigid, rash and hasty reason, have

* persecuted Catholic consciences,

* violated feudal property,

* encroached on the legal authority of the King,

* persecuted the remains of the ancient regime,

* tolerated crimes committed by the crowds,

* even plunged France into an European war,

* armed even the paupers,

* caused the overthrow of all government.--

As far as his Utopia is concerned, the Girondist is a sectarian, and he knows no scruples.

* Little does he care that nine out of ten electors do not vote: he regards himself as the
authorized representative of all ten.

* Little does he care whether the great majority of Frenchmen favor the Constitution of 1791;
it is his business to impose on them his own.

* Little does he care whether his former opponents, King, émigrés, unsworn ecclesiastics, are
honorable men or at least excusable; he will launch against them every rigorous legal proceeding,
transportation, confiscation, civil death and physical death.[3343]

In his own eyes he is the justiciary, and his investiture is bestowed upon him by eternal right.
There is no human infatuation so pernicious to man as that of absolute right; nothing is better
calculated for the destruction in him of the hereditary accumulation of moral conceptions.--Within
the narrow bounds of their creed, however, the Girondins are sincere and consistent. They are
masters of their formulae; they know how to deduce consequences from them; they believe in
them the same as a surveyor in his theorems, and a theologian in the articles of his faith;
they are anxious to apply them, to devise a constitution, to establish a regular government,
to emerge from a barbarous state, to put an end to fighting in the street, to pillaging, to
murders, to the sway of brutal force and of naked arms.

