If it is remembered that all these sufferings continued in their petty details each day, and
that when night came we had not even a bed on which to stretch our weary limbs, some idea may
be formed of the privations we endured on this campaign.  The Emperor never uttered a word
of complaint when beset by such discomforts, and his example inspired us with courage; and
at last we became so accustomed to this fatiguing and wandering existence, that, in spite of
the cold and privations of every sort to which we were subjected, we often jested about the
dainty arrangements of our apartments.  The Emperor on the campaign was affected only by the
sufferings of others, though his health was sometimes so much impaired as to cause anxiety,
especially when he denied himself all rest not absolutely required; and yet I heard him constantly
inquiring if there were lodgings for all, and he would not be satisfied until fully informed
of every particular.

Although the Emperor nearly always had a bed, the poor quarters in which it was set up were
often so filthy, that in spite of all the care taken to clean it, I more than once found on
his clothing a kind of vermin very disagreeable, and very common in Russia.  We suffered more
than the Emperor from this inconvenience, being deprived as we were of proper linen and other
changes of clothing, since the greater part of our effects had been burned with the wagons
containing them.  This extreme measure had been taken, as I have said, for good reasons, all
the horses having died from cold or famine.

We were little better lodged in the palace of the Czars than on the bivouac.  For several days
we had only mattresses; but as a large number of wounded officers had none, the Emperor ordered
ours to be given them. We made the sacrifice willingly, and the thought that we were assisting
others more unfortunate than ourselves would have made the hardest bed endurable.  Besides,
in this war we had more than one opportunity to learn how to put aside all feelings of egotism
and narrow personality; and had we been guilty of such forgetfulness, the Emperor was ever
ready to recall us to this plain and simple duty.

CHAPTER IX.

The only too famous twenty-ninth bulletin of the grand army was not published in Paris, where
the consternation it spread through all classes is well known, until the 16th of December;
and the Emperor, following close upon the heels of this solemn manifesto of our disasters,
arrived in his capital forty-eight hours after, as if endeavoring to annul by his presence
the evil effects which this communication might produce.  On the 28th, at half past eleven
in the evening, his Majesty alighted at the palace of the Tuileries.  This was the first time
since his accession to the consulate that Paris had witnessed his return from a campaign without
announcing a new peace conquered by the glory of our arms.  Under these circumstances, the
numerous persons who from attachment to the Empress Josephine had always seen or imagined they
saw in her a kind of protecting talisman of the success of the Emperor, did not fail to remark
that the campaign of Russia was the first which had been undertaken since the Emperor's marriage
to Marie Louise.  Without any superstition, it could not be denied that, although the Emperor
was always great even when fortune was contrary to him, there was a very marked difference
between the reign of the two Empresses.  The one witnessed only victories followed by peace.
And the other, only wars, not devoid of glory, but devoid of results, until the grand and fatal
conclusion in the abdication at Fontainebleau.

But it is anticipating too much to describe here events which few men dared to predict directly
after the disasters of Moscow.  All the world knows that the cold and a freezing temperature
contributed more to our reverses than the enemy, whom we had pursued even into the heart of
his burning capital.  France still offered immense resources; and the Emperor was now there
in person to direct their employment and increase their value.  Besides, no defection was as
yet apparent; and, with the exception of Spain, Sweden, and Russia, the Emperor considered
all the European powers as allies.  It is true the moment was approaching when General Yorck
would give the signal,--for as well as I can recall, the first news came to the Emperor on
the 10th of the following January,--and it was easy to see that his Majesty was profoundly
affected by it, as he saw that Prussia would have many imitators in the other corps of the
allied armies.

At Smorghoni, where the Emperor had left me setting out, as I have before related, with the
Duke of Vicenza in the coach which had been destined for me, scarcely anything was thought
of but how to extricate ourselves from the frightful situation in which we found ourselves
placed. The court historiographer of the Burmese, has recorded in the national chronicle his
account of the war with the English to the following purport: --"In the years 1186 and 87, the Kula-pyu,
or white strangers of the west, fastened a quarrel upon the Lord of the Golden Palace. They
landed at Rangoon, took that place and Prome, and were permitted to advance as far as Yandabo;
for the king, from motives of piety and regard to life, made no effort
whatever to oppose them.  I have learned since, that
the Emperor reached Warsaw on the 10th, having avoided passing through Wilna by making a circuit
through the suburbs; and at last, after passing through Silesia, he had arrived at Dresden,
where the good and faithful King of Saxony, although very ill, had himself borne to the Emperor.
From this place his Majesty had followed the road by Nassau and Mayence.

I followed also the same route, but not with the same rapidity, although I lost no time.  Everywhere,
and above all in Poland at the places where I stopped, I was astonished to find the feeling
of security I saw manifested.  From all directions I heard the report that the Emperor was
to return at the head of an army of three hundred thousand men.  The Emperor had been known
to do such surprising things, that nothing seemed impossible; and I learned that he himself
had spread these reports on his passage, in order to restore the courage of the population.
In several places I could procure no horses; and consequently, in spite of all my zeal, I did
not reach Paris until six or eight days after the Emperor.

I had hardly alighted from my carriage, when the Emperor, who had been informed of my arrival,
had me summoned.  I observed to the messenger that I was not in a condition which would allow
me to present myself before his Majesty.  "That makes no difference," replied he; "the Emperor
wishes you to come immediately, just as you are."  I obeyed instantly; and went, or rather
ran, to the Emperor's cabinet, where I found him with the Empress, Queen Hortense, and another
person whose name I do not perfectly recall.  The Emperor deigned to give me a most cordial
welcome; and as the Empress seemed to pay no attention to me, said to her in a manner whose
kindness I shall never forget, "Louise, do you not recognize Constant?"

"I perceived him." [Elsewhere Constant has stated her reply was, "I had not perceived him."]
This was the only reply of her Majesty the Empress; but such was not the case with Queen Hortense,
who welcomed me as kindly as her adorable mother had always done.

The Emperor was very gay, and seemed to have forgotten all his fatigue. I was about to retire
respectfully; but his Majesty said to me, "No, Constant, remain a minute longer, and tell me
what you saw on your road." Even if I had any intention to conceal from the Emperor a part
of the truth, taken thus unawares I should have lacked the time to prepare an agreeable falsehood;
so I said to him that everywhere, even in Silesia, my eyes had been struck by the same frightful
spectacle, for everywhere I had seen the dead and the dying, and poor unfortunates struggling
hopelessly against cold and hunger.  "That is true, that is true," he said; "go and rest, my
poor boy, you must be in need of it.  To-morrow you will resume your service."

The next day, in fact, I resumed my duties near the Emperor, and I found him exactly the same
as he had been before entering on the campaign; the same placidity was evident on his countenance.
It would have been said that the past was no longer anything to him; and living ever in the
future, he already saw victory perched again on our banner, and his enemies humiliated and
vanquished.  It is true that the numerous addresses he received, and discourses which were
pronounced in his presence by the presidents of the senate and the council of state, were no
less flattering than formerly; but it was very evident in his replies that if he pretended
to forget this disastrous experience in Russia, he was more deeply concerned about the affair
of General Malet than anything else.

     [In the reply of the Emperor to the council of state occurred the
     following remarkable passage, which it may not be amiss to repeat at
     this period as very singular:

     "It is to idealism and that gloomy species of metaphysics which,
     seeking subtilely for first causes, wishes to place on such
     foundations the legislation of a people, instead of adapting the
     laws to their knowledge of the human heart, and to the lessons of
     history, that it is necessary to attribute all the misfortunes our
     beautiful France has experienced.  These errors have necessarily led
     to the rule of the men of blood.  In fact, who has proclaimed the
     principle of insurrection as a duty?  Who has paid adulation to the
     nation while claiming for it a sovereignty which it was incapable of
     exercising?  Who has destroyed the sanctity and respect for the
     laws, in making them depend, not on the sacred principles of
     justice, or the nature of things and on civil justice, but simply on
     the will of an assembly of men strangers to the knowledge of civil,
     criminal, administrative, political, and military law?  When one is
     called on to regenerate a state, there are directly opposite
     principles by which one must necessarily be guided."--NOTE BY THE
     EDITOR of FRENCH EDITION.

     Claude Francois de Malet, born at Dole, 1754.  In 1806 was a general
     officer, and was dismissed the service.  Plotting against the
     Emperor, he was imprisoned from 1808 to 1812.  On October 24 he
     issued a proclamation that the Emperor had died in Russia, and that
     he (Malet) had been appointed Governor of Paris by the senate.  He
     made Savary prisoner, and shot General Hullin.  He was made prisoner
     in turn by General Laborde, and summarily shot.-TRANS. (See "The
     Memoirs" by Bourrienne for the detail of this plot.  D.W.)]

As for myself I cannot deny the painful feelings I experienced the first time I went out in
Paris, and passed through the public promenades during my hours of leisure; for I was struck
with the large number of persons in mourning whom I met,--the wives and sisters of our brave
soldiers mowed down on the fields of Russia; but I kept these disagreeable impressions to myself.

A few days after my return to Paris their Majesties were present at the opera where 'Jerusalem
Delivered' was presented.  I occupied a box which Count de Remusat had the kindness to lend
me for that evening (he was first chamberlain of the Emperor, and superintendent of theaters),
and witnessed the reception given the Emperor and Empress.  Never have I seen more enthusiasm
displayed, and I must avow that the transition seemed to me most sudden from the recent passage
of the Beresina to those truly magical scenes.  It was on Sunday, and I left the theater a
little before the close in order to reach the palace before the Emperor's return.  I was there
in time to undress him, and I well remember that his Majesty spoke to me that evening of the
quarrel between Talma and Geoffroy which had occurred a few days before his arrival.  The Emperor,
although he had a high opinion of Talma, thought him completely in the wrong, and repeated
several times, "A man of his age!  A man of his age!  that is inexcusable.  Zounds !" added
he, smiling, "do not people speak evil of me also?  Have I not also critics who do not spare
me?  He should not be more sensitive than I" This affair, however, had no disagreeable result
for Talma; for the Emperor was much attached to him, and overwhelmed him with pensions and
presents.

Talma in this respect was among the very privileged few; for giving presents was not in his
Majesty's role, especially to those in his private service.  It was then near the 1st of January;
but we built no air castles at this period, for the Emperor never made gifts.  We knew that
we could not expect any emoluments; though I, especially, could exercise no economy, for the
Emperor required that my toilet should always be extremely elegant.  It was something really
extraordinary to see the master of half of Europe not disdaining to occupy himself with the
toilet of his valet de chambre; even going so far that when he saw me in a new coat which pleased
him he never failed to compliment me on it, adding, "You are very handsome, Monsieur Constant."

Even on the occasion of the marriage of the Emperor and Marie Louise, and that of the birth
of the King of Rome, those composing the private service of his Majesty received no present,
and the Emperor thought the expenses of these ceremonies too great.  On one occasion, however,
but not in consequence of any unusual circumstance, the Emperor said to me one morning as I
finished dressing him, "Constant, go to M. Meneval; I have given him orders to allow you eighteen
hundred livres of income." Now, it happened that the funds had gone up in the interval between
the order and its execution; and instead of receiving eighteen hundred livres of rent, I received
only seventeen, which I sold a short time after, and with the product of this sale bought a
modest piece of property in the forest of Fontainebleau.

Sometimes the Emperor made presents to the princes and princesses of his family, of which I
was nearly always the bearer; and I can assert that with two or three rare exceptions this
duty was perfectly gratuitous, a circumstance which I recall here simply as a recollection.
Queen Hortense and Prince Eugene were never included, according to my recollection, in the
distribution of Imperial gifts, and the Princess Pauline was most often favored.

In spite of the numerous occupations of the Emperor, who after his return from the army spent
much time during the day, and most of the nights, working in his cabinet, he showed himself
more frequently in public than heretofore, going out almost without escort.  On the 2d of January,
1813, for instance, I remember he went, accompanied only by Marshal Duroc, to visit the basilica
of Notre Dame, the works of the archbishopric, those of the central depot of wines, and then,
crossing the bridge of Austerlitz, the granaries, the fountain of the elephant, and finally
the palace of the Bourse, which his Majesty often said was the handsomest building then existing
in Europe. Next comes, as rear-guard to all this, Battalion Grollmann;--along with which is
Wolfersdorf himself, knowing Grollmann for a ticklish article (Saxons mainly); followed on the
heel by Battalion Hofmann, and lastly by Battalion Salmuth, trusty Prussians both of these.


I remarked at this time, that is to say at the end of 1812 and the beginning of 1813, that
the Emperor had never hunted so frequently.  Two or three times a week I assisted him to don
his hunting-costume, which he, like all persons of his suite, wore in accordance with the recently
revived usage of the ancient monarchy.

The Empress often accompanied him in a coach, although the cold was intense; but when he gave
an order there was nothing to be said.  Knowing how distasteful the pleasures of the chase
ordinarily were to his Majesty, I was surprised at this recent fondness he manifested, but
soon learned that he was acting purely from political motives.  One day Marshal Duroc was in
his room, while he was putting on his green coat with gold lace; and I heard the Emperor say
to the marshal, "It is very necessary that I should be in motion, and have the journals speak
of it; for the imbeciles who write for the English journals repeat every day that I am sick,
that I cannot move, and am no longer good for anything. Have patience!  I will soon show them
that I have as much strength of body as of mind."  Besides all this, I think that the exercise
of hunting in moderation was very good for the Emperor's health; for I never saw him in better
condition than during the very time the English journals took pleasure in describing him as
ill, and perhaps by these false statements were contributing to still further improve his health.

CHAPTER X.

On the 19th of January the Emperor sent to inform the Empress that he was to hunt in the wood
of Grosbois, and would breakfast with the Princess de Neuchatel, and requested that her Majesty
would accompany him.  The Emperor ordered me also to be at Grosbois in order to assist him
in changing his linen after the hunt.  This hunting-party took place according to announcement;
but to the unbounded amazement of the entire suite of the Emperor, just as we were on the point
of re-entering our carriages, instead of taking the road to Paris, his Majesty gave orders
to proceed to Fontainebleau.  The Empress and the ladies who accompanied her had nothing except
their hunting costumes, and the Emperor was much diverted by the tribulations their vanity
underwent in being unexpectedly engaged in a campaign without toilet equipments.  Before leaving
Paris the Emperor had given orders that there should be sent in all haste to Fontainebleau
all that the "Empress could need; but her ladies found themselves totally unprovided for, and
it was very amusing to see them immediately on their arrival expedite express after express
for objects of prime necessity which they ordered should be sent posthaste. Weather itself almost
to be called a storm. 'Shoreward, then; eastward, every ship!' became, ultimately, Conflans's
plan. On the whole, it was 2 in the afternoon before Hawke, with those vanward Eight, could
get clutch of Conflans.  Everything having been settled and prearranged,
the Emperor and the Pope signed on the 25th an agreement under the name of Concordat, of which
this is the purport:

     "His Majesty, the Emperor and King, and his Holiness, wishing
     to settle the differences which had arisen between them, and provide
     for difficulties which have unexpectedly arisen in regard to various
     affairs of the church, have agreed on the following articles as
     forming a basis for a definite arrangement:

     ART.  1.  His Holiness will exercise the pontificate in France, and
     in the Kingdom of Italy, in the same manner and under the same
     regulations as his predecessors.

     2.  The ambassadors, ministers, and charges d'affaires to the Holy
     Father, and the ambassadors, ministers, and charges d'affaires from
     him to foreign powers, will enjoy the immunities and privileges of
     members of the diplomatic corps.

     3.  The domains possessed by the Holy Father, and which have not
     been alienated, shall be exempt from all kinds of impost; they shall
     be administered by his agents or representatives.  Those which have
     been alienated shall be replaced to the value of two million francs
     of revenue.

     4.  During the six months which usually follow the notification of
     appointments made by the Emperor to the archbishoprics and
     bishoprics of the Empire and the Kingdom of Italy the Pope shall
     perform the canonical institution in conformity with the Concordat,
     and by virtue of the present agreement; previous information
     concerning which shall be given by the archbishop.  If six months
     shall expire without the Pope having performed this institution, the
     archbishop, and in his absence, where his duties are concerned, the
     senior bishop of the province, shall proceed to the institution of
     the aforementioned bishop, to the end that a see shall never be
     vacant more than one year.

     5.  The Pope shall appoint in France and in the Kingdom of Italy to
     ten bishoprics, which shall later be designated by mutual agreement.

     6.  The six suburban bishoprics shall be re-established, and shall
     be appointed to by the Pope.  The property now held shall be
     restored, and similar measures taken in regard to that already sold.
     On the death of the bishops of Anagni and Rieti, their dioceses
     shall be united with that of the six bishops aforesaid, in
     conformity with the agreement between his Majesty and the Holy
     Father.

     7.  In respect to the bishops of the Roman States, unavoidably
     absent from their dioceses, the Holy Father shall exercise his right
     of bestowing bishoprics 'in partibus'.  He shall give them a pension
     equal to the revenue they formerly enjoyed, and their places in the
     sees thus vacated shall be supplied, both in the Empire and the
     Kingdom of Italy.

     8.  His Majesty and His Holiness will agree on some opportune
     occasion as to the reduction to be made in the bishoprics of
     Tuscany, and the province of Genoa, as well as those to be
     established in Holland, and the Hanseatic departments.

     9.  The propaganda, the penitential court, and the court of
     archives shall be established in the place of residence of the Holy
     Father.

     10.  His Majesty pardons freely the cardinals, bishops, priests, and
     laity who have incurred his disgrace in consequence of certain
     events.

     11.  The Holy Father agrees to the above resolutions in
     consideration of the existing condition of the church, and his
     confidence that his Majesty will grant his powerful assistance to
     the needs of the church, which are so numerous in the times in which
     we live.

                                   "NAPOLEON."     "PIUS VII."

     "Fontainebleau, 25 January, 1813."

It has been attempted by every possible means to throw odium on the conduct of the Emperor
in this affair.  He has been accused of having insulted the Pope, and even of having threatened
him, all of which is most signally false.  Everything was arranged in the most agreeable manner.
M. Devoisin, bishop of Nantes, an ecclesiastic who was highly esteemed by the Emperor, and
was his favorite mediator, in the frequent points of difference which arose between the Pope
and his Majesty, had come to the Tuileries on the 19th of January, and after being closeted
with the Emperor for two hours, had left for Fontainebleau.  And it was immediately after this
interview that the Emperor entered his carriage with the Empress in hunting costume, followed
by the whole suite, similarly attired.

