FOLLOWING
                              THE EQUATOR
                       A JOURNEY AROUND THE WORLD
                                   BY
                               MARK TWAIN
                           SAMUEL L. CLEMENS

                                 Part 5

CHAPTER XXXIX.

By trying we can easily learn to endure adversity.  Another man's,
I mean.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

You soon find your long-ago dreams of India rising in a sort of vague and luscious moonlight
above the horizon-rim of your opaque consciousness, and softly lighting up a thousand forgotten
details which were parts of a vision that had once been vivid to you when you were a boy, and
steeped your spirit in tales of the East.  The barbaric gorgeousnesses, for instance; and the
princely titles, the sumptuous titles, the sounding titles,--how good they taste in the mouth!
The Nizam of Hyderabad; the Maharajah of Travancore; the Nabob of Jubbelpore; the Begum of
Bhopal; the Nawab of Mysore; the Rance of Gulnare; the Ahkoond of Swat's; the Rao of Rohilkund;
the Gaikwar of Baroda.  Indeed, it is a country that runs richly to name.  The great god Vishnu
has 108--108 special ones--108 peculiarly holy ones--names just for Sunday use only.  I learned
the whole of Vishnu's 108 by heart once, but they wouldn't stay; I don't remember any of them
now but John W.

And the romances connected with, those princely native houses--to this day they are always
turning up, just as in the old, old times.  They were sweating out a romance in an English
court in Bombay a while before we were there.  In this case a native prince, 16 1/2 years old,
who has been enjoying his titles and dignities and estates unmolested for fourteen years, is
suddenly haled into court on the charge that he is rightfully no prince at all, but a pauper
peasant; that the real prince died when two and one-half years old; that the death was concealed,
and a peasant child smuggled into the royal cradle, and that this present incumbent was that
smuggled substitute.  This is the very material that so many oriental tales have been made of.

The case of that great prince, the Gaikwar of Baroda, is a reversal of the theme.  When that
throne fell vacant, no heir could be found for some time, but at last one was found in the
person of a peasant child who was making mud pies in a village street, and having an innocent
good time. But his pedigree was straight; he was the true prince, and he has reigned ever since,
with none to dispute his right.

Lately there was another hunt for an heir to another princely house, and one was found who
was circumstanced about as the Gaikwar had been.  His fathers were traced back, in humble life,
along a branch of the ancestral tree to the point where it joined the stem fourteen generations
ago, and his heirship was thereby squarely established.  The tracing was done by means of the
records of one of the great Hindoo shrines, where princes on pilgrimage record their names
and the date of their visit.  This is to keep the prince's religious account straight, and
his spiritual person safe; but the record has the added value of keeping the pedigree authentic,
too.

When I think of Bombay now, at this distance of time, I seem to have a kaleidoscope at my eye;
and I hear the clash of the glass bits as the splendid figures change, and fall apart, and
flash into new forms, figure after figure, and with the birth of each new form I feel my skin
crinkle and my nerve-web tingle with a new thrill of wonder and delight.  These remembered
pictures float past me in a sequence of contracts; following the same order always, and always
whirling by and disappearing with the swiftness of a dream, leaving me with the sense that
the actuality was the experience of an hour, at most, whereas it really covered days, I think.

The series begins with the hiring of a "bearer"--native man-servant--a person who should be
selected with some care, because as long as he is in your employ he will be about as near to
you as your clothes.

In India your day may be said to begin with the "bearer's" knock on the bedroom door, accompanied
by a formula of, words--a formula which is intended to mean that the bath is ready.  It doesn't
really seem to mean anything at all.  But that is because you are not used to "bearer" English.
You will presently understand.

Where he gets his English is his own secret.  There is nothing like it elsewhere in the earth;
or even in paradise, perhaps, but the other place is probably full of it.  You hire him as
soon as you touch Indian soil; for no matter what your sex is, you cannot do without him. 
He is messenger, valet, chambermaid, table-waiter, lady's maid, courier--he is everything.
He carries a coarse linen clothes-bag and a quilt; he sleeps on the stone floor outside your
chamber door, and gets his meals you do not know where nor when; you only know that he is not
fed on the premises, either when you are in a hotel or when you are a guest in a, private house.
His wages are large--from an Indian point of view--and he feeds and clothes himself out of
them.  We had three of him in two and a half months.  The first one's rate was thirty rupees
a month that is to say, twenty-seven cents a day; the rate of the others, Rs. 40 (40 rupees)
a month.  A princely sum; for the native switchman on a railway and the native servant in a
private family get only Rs. 7 per month, and the farm-hand only 4.  The two former feed and
clothe themselves and their families on their $1.90 per month; but I cannot believe that the
farmhand has to feed himself on his $1.08.  I think the farm probably feeds him, and that the
whole of his wages, except a trifle for the priest, go to the support of his family.  That
is, to the feeding of his family; for they live in a mud hut, hand-made, and, doubtless, rent-free,
and they wear no clothes; at least, nothing more than a rag.  And not much of a rag at that,
in the case of the males.  However, these are handsome times for the farm-hand; he was not
always the child of luxury that he is now. The Chief Commissioner of the Central Provinces,
in a recent official utterance wherein he was rebuking a native deputation for complaining
of hard times, reminded them that they could easily remember when a farm-hand's wages were
only half a rupee (former value) a month--that is to say, less than a cent a day; nearly $2.90
a year.  If such a wage-earner had a good deal of a family--and they all have that, for God
is very good to these poor natives in some ways--he would save a profit of fifteen cents, clean
and clear, out of his year's toil; I mean a frugal, thrifty person would, not one given to
display and ostentation. And if he owed $13.50 and took good care of his health, he could pay
it off in ninety years.  Then he could hold up his head, and look his creditors in the face again.

Think of these facts and what they mean.  India does not consist of cities.  There are no cities
in India--to speak of.  Its stupendous population consists of farm-laborers.  India is one
vast farm--one almost interminable stretch of fields with mud fences between. . .  Think of
the above facts; and consider what an incredible aggregate of poverty they place before you.

The first Bearer that applied, waited below and sent up his recommendations.  That was the
first morning in Bombay.  We read them over; carefully, cautiously, thoughtfully.  There was
not a fault to find with them--except one; they were all from Americans.  Is that a slur? If
it is, it is a deserved one.  In my experience, an American's recommendation of a servant is
not usually valuable.  We are too good-natured a race; we hate to say the unpleasant thing;
we shrink from speaking the unkind truth about a poor fellow whose bread depends upon our verdict;
so we speak of his good points only, thus not scrupling to tell a lie--a silent lie--for in
not mentioning his bad ones we as good as say he hasn't any.  The only difference that I know
of between a silent lie and a spoken one is, that the silent lie is a less respectable one
than the other.  And it can deceive, whereas the other can't--as a rule.  We not only tell
the silent lie as to a servant's faults, but we sin in another way: we overpraise his merits;
for when it comes to writing recommendations of servants we are a nation of gushers.  And we
have not the Frenchman's excuse.  In France you must give the departing servant a good recommendation;
and you must conceal his faults; you have no choice.  If you mention his faults for the protection
of the next candidate for his services, he can sue you for damages; and the court will award
them, too; and, moreover, the judge will give you a sharp dressing-down from the bench for
trying to destroy a poor man's character, and rob him of his bread.  I do not state this on
my own authority, I got it from a French physician of fame and repute--a man who was born in
Paris, and had practiced there all his life.  And he said that he spoke not merely from common
knowledge, but from exasperating personal experience.

As I was saying, the Bearer's recommendations were all from American tourists; and St. Peter
would have admitted him to the fields of the blest on them--I mean if he is as unfamiliar with
our people and our ways as I suppose he is.  According to these recommendations, Manuel X.
was supreme in all the arts connected with his complex trade; and these manifold arts were
mentioned--and praised-in detail.  His English was spoken of in terms of warm admiration--admiration
verging upon rapture. I took pleased note of that, and hoped that some of it might be true.

We had to have some one right away; so the family went down stairs and took him a week on trial;
then sent him up to me and departed on their affairs.  I was shut up in my quarters with a
bronchial cough, and glad to have something fresh to look at, something new to play with. 
Manuel filled the bill; Manuel was very welcome.  He was toward fifty years old, tall, slender,
with a slight stoop--an artificial stoop, a deferential stoop, a stoop rigidified by long habit--with
face of European mould; short hair intensely black; gentle black eyes, timid black eyes, indeed;
complexion very dark, nearly black in fact; face smooth-shaven.  He was bareheaded and barefooted,
and was never otherwise while his week with us lasted; his clothing was European, cheap, flimsy,
and showed much wear.

He stood before me and inclined his head (and body) in the pathetic Indian way, touching his
forehead with the finger--ends of his right hand, in salute.  I said:

"Manuel, you are evidently Indian, but you seem to have a Spanish name when you put it all
together.  How is that?"

A perplexed look gathered in his face; it was plain that he had not understood--but he didn't
let on.  He spoke back placidly.

"Name, Manuel.  Yes, master."

"I know; but how did you get the name?"

"Oh, yes, I suppose.  Think happen so.  Father same name, not mother."

I saw that I must simplify my language and spread my words apart, if I would be understood
by this English scholar.

"Well--then--how--did--your--father--get--his name?"

"Oh, he,"--brightening a little--"he Christian--Portygee; live in Goa; I born Goa; mother not
Portygee, mother native-high-caste Brahmin--Coolin Brahmin; highest caste; no other so high
caste.  I high-caste Brahmin, too.  Christian, too, same like father; high-caste Christian
Brahmin, master--Salvation Army."

All this haltingly, and with difficulty.  Then he had an inspiration, and began to pour out
a flood of words that I could make nothing of; so I said:

"There--don't do that.  I can't understand Hindostani."

"Not Hindostani, master--English.  Always I speaking English sometimes when I talking every
day all the time at you."

"Very well, stick to that; that is intelligible.  It is not up to my hopes, it is not up to
the promise of the recommendations, still it is English, and I understand it.  Don't elaborate
it; I don't like elaborations when they are crippled by uncertainty of touch."

"Master?"

"Oh, never mind; it was only a random thought; I didn't expect you to understand it.  How did
you get your English; is it an acquirement, or just a gift of God?"

After some hesitation--piously:

"Yes, he very good.  Christian god very good, Hindoo god very good, too. Two million Hindoo
god, one Christian god--make two million and one.  All mine; two million and one god.  I got
a plenty.  Sometime I pray all time at those, keep it up, go all time every day; give something
at shrine, all good for me, make me better man; good for me, good for my family, dam good."

Then he had another inspiration, and went rambling off into fervent confusions and incoherencies,
and I had to stop him again.  I thought we had talked enough, so I told him to go to the bathroom
and clean it up and remove the slops--this to get rid of him.  He went away, seeming to understand,
and got out some of my clothes and began to brush them.  I repeated my desire several times,
simplifying and re-simplifying it, and at last he got the idea.  Then he went away and put
a coolie at the work, and explained that he would lose caste if he did it himself; it would
be pollution, by the law of his caste, and it would cost him a deal of fuss and trouble to
purify himself and accomplish his rehabilitation.  He said that that kind of work was strictly
forbidden to persons of caste, and as strictly restricted to the very bottom layer of Hindoo
society--the despised 'Sudra' (the toiler, the laborer).  He was right; and apparently the
poor Sudra has been content with his strange lot, his insulting distinction, for ages and ages--clear
back to the beginning of things, so to speak.  Buckle says that his name--laborer--is a term
of contempt; that it is ordained by the Institutes of Menu (900 B.C.) that if a Sudra sit on
a level with his superior he shall be exiled or branded--[Without going into particulars I
will remark that as a rule they wear no clothing that would conceal the brand.--M. T.].  .
. ; if he speak contemptuously of his superior or insult him he shall suffer death; if he listen
to the reading of the sacred books he shall have burning oil poured in his ears; if he memorize
passages from them he shall be killed; if he marry his daughter to a Brahmin the husband shall
go to hell for defiling himself by contact with a woman so infinitely his inferior; and that
it is forbidden to a Sudra to acquire wealth.  "The bulk of the population of India," says
Bucklet--[Population to-day, 300,000,000.] --"is the Sudras--the workers, the farmers, the
creators of wealth."

Manuel was a failure, poor old fellow.  His age was against him.  He was desperately slow and
phenomenally forgetful. But He
was, after a sarcastic remark Böcklin, the only one not seen his gallery added. He had contracted
through his studies and was a serious evil eye on third-party Council instructed. Since he
was a truly remarkable poet, he was also significant Consulting people, but not always good. He has
failed in crucial cases, especially where Böcklin and Feuerbach their wings lifted most powerful.
He failed to recognize the paramount importance The first villa, rejected the "Spring dance" of 1869
and condemned the "hunting of Diana. " He was not a lavish patron, and he never used his bread
with tears eaten, he did not always know what he does with its economy. But it raises a peculiar
light on the conditions at that time that a nearly blind man seeing the shame added.

In Rome Böcklin have the first punch of Raphael, especially the "Heliodorus,"
a huge Made an impression.

He had studied it earlier, but he had now been more than five years, not seen, and since then
own murals, and even larger figures painted. He also visited Naples for the first time and was
- according to the testimony of Schick, which goes back to his statements, - such an impression in
the paintings of Pompeii, that he was completely driven out of the previous track, lost a
year before he found himself had and then embarking on a whole new way. In 1863 he also has the statue
of Augustus seen the Braccio Nuovo, as still in full color jewelry in their thousand-year grave was
found and the observations in Naples and Pompeii encouraged him in intuition, that ancient
sculpture was not one color and the eyes of the ancient statues as good as the the Sistine Madonna
was dark. The course also gave him a very different idea of ancient art as it was previously
available and possible.

For Raphael, it was mainly the "large decorative," which attracted
him, the ability to manage large figures to decorate the wall and
acting to stimulate the imagination.

For the Greeks, incited him the forms, colors and techniques. It has now joined to the influence
from the Poussin and the Venetian school, a third, attested by him. But while the Landscapes of
his youth quite strikingly resemble those Dughet and his contemporaries, is followed by what
follows now, not in the sense that the painting of David and JL Asmus Carstens, even as the
painting of Poussin to the Greeks. He painted at that time occasionally a head that matches
the shape of a Greek statue. He also had in life a preference for the compact and powerful
build, as in general the Greeks Unlike the Western nations, especially the French preferred. But it
occurred to him not perorieren known ancient Roman collections in his paintings and to have them
stand around, take over or at least the ancient form of canon as a whole. Without the testimony
of Rud. Send it would be the influence of the Greeks can not even recognize. The imitation
was not a slavish. His main works are landscapes for the time being. The first picture in which
heralded the new style is clear, the "woman Böcklin as Muse" (in Basel) is far from being generalized
to the facial features such as the type of Niobidenköpfe. It follows in 1864 as a major work of
the new epoch, the darker of the two villas on the sea of ​​the Schack Gallery (Plate 15),
and then 1865, the lighter specimen (Plate 16) and the "ancient Roman wine-shop" (Plate 18).

The
novelty is that the representation is not universal, but has become more expressive. Even at first glance
are now the color and lines every time mood at. It is the sudden-Clear, to the other means in the style
of Raphael's late expression comes.

Nothing shows that perhaps as clear as the ceremony, one could almost say plaintive lines,
stand that the trees and the palace in the "villa" from the dark sky. It seems to us, it's
even already expressed in the lines that it is the action a noble soul, does not constitute the cry
of a proletarian.

How much in the silhouettes alone is given, it can be seen when compared with those of the "Diana's
Hunt" compares. One does not have the precursors and studies on the waterfront villas to be used.
These Major works are in fact transformations of an already existing composition into larger
and More effective. Even for the ancient art, it was an advantage that they always show the same had.
Thus the interest of the artist and the audience was of course drawn to the way such a charge
was resolved artistically. Also Böcklin that repeatedly transformed the same motif, has come to
this so high perfection.
  It
would be false modesty to pretend that I was not inordinately pleased.  I was.  I was much
more pleased than I should have been with a compliment from a man.

He remained half an hour, and I found him a most courteous and charming gentleman.  The godship
has been in his family a good while, but I do not know how long.  He is a Mohammedan deity;
by earthly rank he is a prince; not an Indian but a Persian prince.  He is a direct descendant
of the Prophet's line.  He is comely; also young--for a god; not forty, perhaps not above thirty-five
years old.  He wears his immense honors with tranquil brace, and with a dignity proper to his
awful calling.  He speaks English with the ease and purity of a person born to it.  I think
I am not overstating this.  He was the only god I had ever seen, and I was very favorably impressed.
When he rose to say good-bye, the door swung open and I caught the flash of a red fez, and
heard these words, reverently said--

"Satan see God out?"

"Yes." And these mis-mated Beings passed from view Satan in the lead and The Other following after.

CHAPTER XL.

Few of us can stand prosperity.  Another man's, I mean.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The next picture in my mind is Government House, on Malabar Point, with the wide sea-view from
the windows and broad balconies; abode of His Excellency the Governor of the Bombay Presidency--a
residence which is European in everything but the native guards and servants, and is a home
and a palace of state harmoniously combined.

That was England, the English power, the English civilization, the modern civilization--with
the quiet elegancies and quiet colors and quiet tastes and quiet dignity that are the outcome
of the modern cultivation.  And following it came a picture of the ancient civilization of
India--an hour in the mansion of a native prince: Kumar Schri Samatsinhji Bahadur of the Palitana
State.

The young lad, his heir, was with the prince; also, the lad's sister, a wee brown sprite, very
pretty, very serious, very winning, delicately moulded, costumed like the daintiest butterfly,
a dear little fairyland princess, gravely willing to be friendly with the strangers, but in
the beginning preferring to hold her father's hand until she could take stock of them and determine
how far they were to be trusted.  She must have been eight years old; so in the natural (Indian)
order of things she would be a bride in three or four years from now, and then this free contact
with the sun and the air and the other belongings of out-door nature and comradeship with visiting
male folk would end, and she would shut herself up in the zenana for life, like her mother,
and by inherited habit of mind would be happy in that seclusion and not look upon it as an
irksome restraint and a weary captivity.

The game which the prince amuses his leisure with--however, never mind it, I should never be
able to describe it intelligibly.  I tried to get an idea of it while my wife and daughter
visited the princess in the zenana, a lady of charming graces and a fluent speaker of English,
but I did not make it out.  It is a complicated game, and I believe it is said that nobody
can learn to play it well--but an Indian.  And I was not able to learn how to wind a turban.
It seemed a simple art and easy; but that was a deception.  It is a piece of thin, delicate
stuff a foot wide or more, and forty or fifty feet long; and the exhibitor of the art takes
one end of it in his hands, and winds it in and out intricately about his head,  twisting it
as he goes, and in a minute or two the thing is finished, and is neat and symmetrical and fits
as snugly as a mould.

We were interested in the wardrobe and the jewels, and in the silverware, and its grace of
shape and beauty and delicacy of ornamentation.  The silverware is kept locked up, except at
meal-times, and none but the chief butler and the prince have keys to the safe.  I did not
clearly understand why, but it was not for the protection of the silver.  It was either to
protect the prince from the contamination which his caste would suffer if the vessels were
touched by low-caste hands, or it was to protect his highness from poison.  Possibly it was
both.  I believe a salaried taster has to taste everything before the prince ventures it--an
ancient and judicious custom in the East, and has thinned out the tasters a good deal, for
of course it is the cook that puts the poison in.  If I were an Indian prince I would not go
to the expense of a taster, I would eat with the cook.

Ceremonials are always interesting; and I noted that the Indian good-morning is a ceremonial,
whereas ours doesn't amount to that.  In salutation the son reverently touches the father's
forehead with a small silver implement tipped with vermillion paste which leaves a red spot
there, and in return the son receives the father's blessing.  Our good morning is well enough
for the rowdy West, perhaps, but would be too brusque for the soft and ceremonious East.

After being properly necklaced, according to custom, with great garlands made of yellow flowers,
and provided with betel-nut to chew, this pleasant visit closed, and we passed thence to a
scene of a different sort: from this glow of color and this sunny life to those grim receptacles
of the Parsee dead, the Towers of Silence.  There is something stately about that name, and
an impressiveness which sinks deep; the hush of death is in it.  We have the Grave, the Tomb,
the Mausoleum, God's Acre, the Cemetery; and association has made them eloquent with solemn
meaning; but we have no name that is so majestic as that one, or lingers upon the ear with
such deep and haunting pathos.

On lofty ground, in the midst of a paradise of tropical foliage and flowers, remote from the
world and its turmoil and noise, they stood--the Towers of Silence; and away below was spread
the wide groves of cocoa palms, then the city, mile on mile, then the ocean with its fleets
of creeping ships all steeped in a stillness as deep as the hush that hallowed this high place
of the dead.  The vultures were there.  They stood close together in a great circle all around
the rim of a massive low tower--waiting; stood as motionless as sculptured ornaments, and indeed
almost deceived one into the belief that that was what they were. Presently there was a slight
stir among the score of persons present, and all moved reverently out of the path and ceased
from talking.  A funeral procession entered the great gate, marching two and two, and moved
silently by, toward the Tower.  The corpse lay in a shallow shell, and was under cover of a
white cloth, but was otherwise naked.  The bearers of the body were separated by an interval
of thirty feet from the mourners.  They, and also the mourners, were draped all in pure white,
and each couple of mourners was figuratively bound together by a piece of white rope or a handkerchief--though
they merely held the ends of it in their hands.  Behind the procession followed a dog, which
was led in a leash.  When the mourners had reached the neighborhood of the Tower --neither
they nor any other human being but the bearers of the dead must approach within thirty feet
of it--they turned and went back to one of the prayer-houses within the gates, to pray for
the spirit of their dead. The bearers unlocked the Tower's sole door and disappeared from view
within.  In a little while they came out bringing the bier and the white covering-cloth, and
locked the door again.  Then the ring of vultures rose, flapping their wings, and swooped down
into the Tower to devour the body.  Nothing was left of it but a clean-picked skeleton when
they flocked-out again a few minutes afterward.

The principle which underlies and orders everything connected with a Parsee funeral is Purity.
By the tenets of the Zoroastrian religion, the elements, Earth, Fire, and Water, are sacred,
and must not be contaminated by contact with a dead body. The woman decides the most respected Lord of the train. Each Lord
is now in his respective Dame assist in the dining room designated by their name card Place to be found.
He then says goodbye to her with a bow and looks for his Place.
  They receive high pay, but
theirs is a dismal life, for they must live apart from their species, because their commerce
with the dead defiles them, and any who should associate with them would share their defilement.
When they come out of the Tower the clothes they are wearing are exchanged for others, in a
building within the grounds, and the ones which they have taken off are left behind, for they
are contaminated, and must never be used again or suffered to go outside the grounds.  These
bearers come to every funeral in new garments.  So far as is known, no human being, other than
an official corpse-bearer--save one--has ever entered a Tower of Silence after its consecration.
Just a hundred years ago a European rushed in behind the bearers and fed his brutal curiosity
with a glimpse of the forbidden mysteries of the place.  This shabby savage's name is not given;
his quality is also concealed.  These two details, taken in connection with the fact that for
his extraordinary offense the only punishment he got from the East India Company's Government
was a solemn official "reprimand"--suggest the suspicion that he was a European of consequence.
The same public document which contained the reprimand gave warning that future offenders of
his sort, if in the Company's service, would be dismissed; and if merchants, suffer revocation
of license and exile to England.

The Towers are not tall, but are low in proportion to their circumference, like a gasometer.
If you should fill a gasometer half way up with solid granite masonry, then drive a wide and
deep well down through the center of this mass of masonry, you would have the idea of a Tower
of Silence. The representation
had the Italian countryside in the "Pan" so stunned, had been surpassed in the image of the
Schack Gallery, the "panic" of 1860 (Plate 10) and this painting should now by "Diana's Hunt"
(Plate

