THE NATURE FAKER

By Richard Harding Davis

Richard Herrick was a young man with a gentle disposition, much money, and no sense of humor.
His object in life was to marry Miss Catherweight. For three years she had tried to persuade
him this could not be, and finally, in order to convince him, married some one else. When the
woman he loves marries another man, the rejected one is popularly supposed to take to drink
or to foreign travel. Statistics show that, instead, he instantly falls in love with the best
friend of the girl who refused him. But, as Herrick truly loved Miss Catherweight, he could
not worship any other woman, and so he became a lover of nature. Nature, he assured his men
friends, does not disappoint you. The more thought, care, affection you give to nature, the
more she gives you in return, and while, so he admitted, in wooing nature there are no great
moments, there are no heart-aches. Jackson, one of the men friends, and of a frivolous disposition,
said that he also could admire a landscape, but he would rather look at the beautiful eyes
of a girl he knew than at the Lakes of Killarney, with a full moon, a setting sun, and the
aurora borealis for a background. Herrick suggested that, while the beautiful eyes might seek
those of another man, the Lakes of Killarney would always remain where you could find them.
Herrick pursued his new love in Connecticut on an abandoned farm which he converted into a
"model" one. On it he established model dairies and model incubators. He laid out old-fashioned
gardens, sunken gardens, Italian gardens, landscape gardens, and a game preserve.

The game preserve was his own especial care and pleasure. It consisted of two hundred acres
of dense forest and hills and ridges of rock. It was filled with mysterious caves, deep chasms,
tiny gurgling streams, nestling springs, and wild laurel. It was barricaded with fallen tree-trunks
and moss-covered rocks that had never felt the foot of man since that foot had worn a moccasin.
Around the preserve was a high fence stout enough to keep poachers on the outside and to persuade
the wild animals that inhabited it to linger on the inside. These wild animals were squirrels,
rabbits, and raccoons. Every day, in sunshine or in rain, entering through a private gate,
Herrick would explore this holy of holies. For such vermin as would destroy the gentler animals
he carried a gun. But it was turned only on those that preyed upon his favorites. For hours
he would climb through this wilderness, or, seated on a rock, watch a bluebird building her
nest or a squirrel laying in rations against the coming of the snow. In time he grew to think
he knew and understood the inhabitants of this wild place of which he was the overlord. He
looked upon them not as his tenants but as his guests. And when they fled from him in terror
to caves and hollow tree-trunks, he wished he might call them back and explain he was their
friend, that it was due to him they lived in peace. He was glad they were happy. He was glad
it was through him that, undisturbed, they could live the simple life.

His fall came through ambition. Herrick himself attributed it to his too great devotion to
nature and nature's children. Jackson, he of the frivolous mind, attributed it to the fact
that any man is sure to come to grief who turns from the worship of God's noblest handiwork,
by which Jackson meant woman, to worship chipmunks and Plymouth Rock hens. One night Jackson
lured Herrick into New York to a dinner and a music hall. He invited also one Kelly, a mutual
friend of a cynical and combative disposition. Jackson liked to hear him and Herrick abuse
each other, and always introduced subjects he knew would cause each to lose his temper.

But, on this night, Herrick needed no goading. He was in an ungrateful mood. Accustomed to
food fresh from the soil and the farmyard, he sneered at hothouse asparagus, hothouse grapes,
and cold-storage quail. At the music hall he was even more difficult. In front of him sat a
stout lady who when she shook with laughter shed patchouli and a man who smoked American cigarettes.
At these and the steam heat, the nostrils of Herrick, trained to the odor of balsam and the
smoke of open wood fires, took offense. He refused to be amused. The monologue artist, in whom
Jackson found delight, caused Herrick only to groan; the knockabout comedians he hoped would
break their collar-bones; the lady who danced Salome, and who fascinated Kelly, Herrick prayed
would catch pneumonia and die of it. And when the drop rose upon the Countess Zichy's bears,
his dissatisfaction reached a climax.

There were three bears--a large papa bear, a mamma bear, and the baby bear. On the programme
they were described as Bruno, Clara, and Ikey. They were of a dusty brown, with long, curling
noses tipped with white, and fat, tan-colored bellies. When father Bruno, on his hind legs
and bare feet, waddled down the stage, he resembled a Hebrew gentleman in a brown bathing suit
who had lost his waist-line. As he tripped doubtfully forward, with mincing steps, he continually
and mournfully wagged his head. He seemed to be saying: "This water is much too cold for me."
The mamma bear was dressed in a poke bonnet and white apron, and resembled the wolf who frightened
Little Red Riding-Hood, and Ikey, the baby bear, wore rakishly over one eye the pointed cap
of a clown. To those who knew their vaudeville, this was indisputable evidence that Ikey would
furnish the comic relief. Nor did Ikey disappoint them. He was a wayward son. When his parents
were laboriously engaged in a boxing-match, or dancing to the "Merry Widow Waltz," or balancing
on step-ladders, Ikey, on all fours, would scamper to the foot-lights and, leaning over, make
a swift grab at the head of the first trombone. And when the Countess Zichy, apprised by the
shouts of the audience of Ikey's misconduct, waved a toy whip, Ikey would gallop back to his
pedestal and howl at her. To every one, except Herrick and the first trombone, this playfulness
on the part of Ikey furnished great delight.

The performances of the bears ended with Bruno and Clara dancing heavily to the refrain of
the "Merry Widow Waltz," while Ikey pretended to conduct the music of the orchestra. On the
final call, Madame Zichy threw to each of the animals a beer bottle filled with milk; and the
gusto with which the savage-looking beasts uncorked the bottles and drank from them greatly
amused the audience. Ikey, standing on his hind legs, his head thrown back, with both paws
clasping the base of the bottle, shoved the neck far down his throat, and then, hurling it
from him, and cocking his clown's hat over his eyes, gave a masterful imitation of a very intoxicated
bear.

"That," exclaimed Herrick hotly, "is a degrading spectacle. It degrades the bear and degrades
me and you."

"No, it bores me," said Kelly.

"If you understood nature," retorted Herrick, "and nature's children, it would infuriate you."

"I don't go to a music hall to get infuriated," said Kelly.

"Trained dogs I don't mind," exclaimed Herrick. "Dogs are not wild animals. The things they're
trained to do are of USE. They can guard the house, or herd sheep. But a bear is a wild beast.
Always will be a wild beast. You can't train him to be of use. It's degrading to make him ride
a bicycle. I hate it! If I'd known there were to be performing bears to-night, I wouldn't have
come!"

"And if I'd known you were to be here to-night, I wouldn't have come!" said Kelly. "Where do
we go to next?"

They went next to a restaurant in a gayly decorated cellar. Into this young men like themselves
and beautiful ladies were so anxious to hurl themselves that to restrain them a rope was swung
across the entrance and page boys stood on guard. Monthault, on being examined, denied having commanded
the enterprize. Had he advised, or permitted it, was a question put by one of the council; it was
over-ruled as inadmissible by Lord Goring; and Monthault made a specious appearance, by talking
loudly of the gallantry and excellent intentions of his friend. Pale, wounded, and dejected,
Eustace was unable to raise his eyes, fearing nothing so much as
the calm severity of Lord Hopton's aspect.

The hopes he had formed were blasted; his promised course of glory and success was turned
to shame and misfortune; nay, worse, he had materially injured the
Prince, whom he would have died to serve.--He stood almost senseless
while he heard himself ordered under an arrest, and to be kept from
duty for a fortnight.

That time was indeed scarce sufficient to heal his wounds; but Eustace could not separate
in his mind the restrictions imposed by kindness from the punishment
of disobedience.

His extreme agitation moved the compassion of the centinel who was
placed over him, and who was indeed the same brave trooper who had
saved his life.

"Courage, noble Captain," said he; "Their Honours, the Lords of Council,
only lock you up to give you time to get well.

When they asked me about the business, I told them you was as true
a heart as ever lifted broad-sword, only a little too hot--that's
all; and one of them, the old Lord, with white hair, that looked at
you so, wished that true hearts were more common.

Your wounds will be well by the time you are let out; and then we'll cut and slash the round-heads
again.

Shall we not do them a good one, as we say in Lancashire?"

The name of his native county threw the thoughts of Eustace into a train, no less painful than
the wounded feelings of a soldier.--Its dear emigrants, what would they now think of him! Even
Constantia would abjure him:--surely she would never hear of his
being reproved as a peculator, and ordered under an arrest for insubordination.

"You

are too brave a gentleman to mind a few slashes and thumps," continued
the talkative centinel; "the surgeon says they will heal up, and you'll
have a whole skin again presently; so it must be some other sorrow
which casts you down so.

And nothing cuts a man up like sorrow, as I have heard good Dr. Beaumont say."

The name roused Eustace to enquire how he knew the opinions of Dr.
Beaumont, and the eclaircissement proved the centinel to be Ralph
Jobson, the same person who refused to take the covenant at Ribblesdale
in the beginning of the civil war, and had ever since felt such a
reverence for the Doctor, as to connect with his name every sentiment
to which he affixed peculiar importance.--To have rescued his nephew
from death or captivity, was a most gratifying event to Jobson's honest
heart; and he readily offered to do Eustace any service, even so far
as to pass through the enemy's quarters, and inform the Doctor of
his misfortunes.

"Not for the universe," replied Eustace, "in the present situation of affairs."--"True," answered
Jobson, "we must not rob the King of one brave heart just now; and
though I was only a poor carter, and am now a trooper and quarter-master's
man, mine is as true a heart as that old Lord's with white hair, that
I liked the look of.

 Maybe it's a pity, but it's the fact. I'll bet if you could ask them whether they'd rather
sleep in a cave on your farm or be headliners in vaudeville, they'd tell you they were 'devoted
to their art.'"

"Why!" exclaimed Kelly, "they're so far from nature that if they didn't have that colored boy
to comb and brush them twice a day they'd be ashamed to look each other in the eyes."

"And another thing," continued Jackson, "trained animals love to 'show off.' They're children.
Those bears ENJOY doing those tricks. They ENJOY the applause. They enjoy dancing to the 'Merry
Widow Waltz.' And if you lock them up in your jungle, they'll get so homesick that they'll
give a performance twice a day to the squirrels and woodpeckers."

"It's just as hard to unlearn a thing as to learn it," said Kelly sententiously. "You can't
make a man who has learned to wear shoes enjoy going around in his bare feet."

"Rot!" cried Herrick. "Look at me. Didn't I love New York? I loved it so I never went to bed
for fear I'd miss something. But when I went 'Back to the Land,' did it take me long to fall
in love with the forests and the green fields? It took me a week. I go to bed now the same
day I get up, and I've passed on my high hat and frock coat to a scarecrow. And I'll bet you
when those bears once scent the wild woods they'll stampede for them like Croker going to a
third alarm."

"And I repeat," cried Kelly, "you are a nature faker. And I'll leave it to the bears to prove it."

"We have done our best," sighed Jackson. "We have tried to save him money and trouble. And
now all he can do for us in return is to give us seats for the opening performance."

What the bears cost Herrick he never told. But it was a very large sum. As the Countess Zichy
pointed out, bears as bears, in a state of nature, are cheap. If it were just a bear he wanted,
he himself could go to Pike County, Pennsylvania, and trap one. What he was paying for, she
explained, was the time she had spent in educating the Bruno family, and added to that the
time during which she must now remain idle while she educated another family.

Herrick knew for what he was paying. It was the pleasure of rescuing unwilling slaves from
bondage. As to their expensive education, if they returned to a state of ignorance as rapidly
as did most college graduates he knew, he would be satisfied. Two days later, when her engagement
at the music hall closed, Madame Zichy reluctantly turned over her pets to their new manager.
With Ikey she was especially loath to part.

"I'll never get one like him," she wailed, "Ikey is the funniest four-legged clown in America.
He's a natural-born comedian. Folks think I learn him those tricks, but it's all his own stuff.
Only last week we was playing Paoli's in Bridgeport, and when I was putting Bruno through the
hoops, Ikey runs to the stage-box and grabs a pound of caramels out of a girl's lap-and swallows
the box. And in St. Paul, if the trombone hadn't worn a wig, Ikey would have scalped him. Say,
it was a scream! When the audience see the trombone snatched bald-headed, and him trying to
get back his wig, and Ikey chewing it, they went crazy. You can't learn a bear tricks like
that. It's just genius. Some folks think I taught him to act like he was intoxicated, but he
picked that up, too, all by himself, through watching my husband. And Ikey's very fond of beer
on his own account. If I don't stop them, the stage hands would be always slipping him drinks.
I hope you won't give him none."

"I will not!" said Herrick.

The bears, Ikey in one cage and Bruno and Clara in another, travelled by express to the station
nearest the Herrick estate. There they were transferred to a farm wagon, and grumbling and
growling, and with Ikey howling like an unspanked child, they were conveyed to the game preserve.
At the only gate that entered it, Kelly and Jackson and a specially invited house party of
youths and maidens were gathered to receive them. At a greater distance stood all of the servants
and farm hands, and as the wagon backed against the gate, with the door of Ikey's cage opening
against it, the entire audience, with one accord, moved solidly to the rear. Herrick, with
a pleased but somewhat nervous smile, mounted the wagon. But before he could unlock the cage
Kelly demanded to be heard. He insisted that, following the custom of all great artists, the
bears should give a farewell performance.

He begged that Bruno and Clara might be permitted to dance together. He pointed out that this
would be the last time they could listen to the strains of the "Merry Widow Waltz." He called
upon everybody present to whistle it.

The suggestion of an open-air performance was received coldly. At the moment no one seemed
able to pucker his lips into a whistle, and some even explained that with that famous waltz
they were unfamiliar.

One girl attained an instant popularity by pointing out that the bears could waltz just as
well on one side of the fence as the other. Kelly, cheated of his free performance, then begged
that before Herrick condemned the bears to starve on acorns, he should give them a farewell
drink, and Herrick, who was slightly rattled, replied excitedly that he had not ransomed the
animals only to degrade them. The argument was interrupted by the French chef falling out of
a tree. He had climbed it, he explained, in order to obtain a better view.

When, in turn, it was explained to him that a bear also could climb a tree, he remembered he
had left his oven door open. His departure reminded other servants of duties they had neglected,
and one of the guests, also, on remembering he had put in a long-distance call, hastened to
the house. Jackson suggested that perhaps they had better all return with him, as the presence
of so many people might frighten the bears. At the moment he spoke, Ikey emitted a hideous
howl, whether of joy or rage no one knew, and few remained to find out. It was not until Herrick
had investigated and reported that Ikey was still behind the bars that the house party cautiously
returned. The house party then filed a vigorous protest. Its members, with Jackson as spokesman,
complained that Herrick was relying entirely too much on his supposition that the bears would
be anxious to enter the forest. Jackson pointed out that, should they not care to do so, there
was nothing to prevent them from doubling back under the wagon; in which case the house party
and all of the United States lay before them. It was not until a lawn-tennis net and much chicken
wire was stretched in intricate thicknesses across the lower half of the gate that Herrick
was allowed to proceed. Unassisted, he slid back the cage door, and without a moment's hesitation
Ikey leaped from the wagon through the gate and into the preserve. For an instant, dazed by
the sudden sunlight, he remained motionless, and then, after sniffing delightedly at the air,
stuck his nose deep into the autumn leaves. Eustace would have felt ashamed at yielding to such
expressions of poignant distress before any observer, had not the
more painful consideration that this person had been a witness of
his disgrace suppressed every other thought.

"Did you hear the General speak to me?" enquired Eustace in a perturbed accent. After a long
pause the stranger answered, "I did."--Those words were uttered in a well-known voice; and at
a moment of indelible shame and public ruin, Eustace saw the long-desired
features of his father: that father, by whose side he hoped to have
fought manfully, in defence of his King and in pursuit of glorious
renown, was the witness of an accusation which even mercy could not
pardon, and beheld him sinking under the consciousness of acknowledged
offences.

Dignified in misery, Colonel Evellin stood gazing at the youth on whose virtues his fondest
hopes had reposed, now sunk far below even his own desperate fortunes. Eustace held his hands before
his face, not daring even to ask a blessing, nor presuming to enquire how they happened to
meet at this awful crisis.

Colonel Evellin first broke silence. "You are Eustace Evellin, my only son, for whom I cherished
the remnant of my unfortunate life.--Boy, I was plundered of wealth, title, and reputation,
by a perfidious friend. I submitted to obscurity and poverty, for I was blessed with a faithful
wife in your angel-mother. Thanks be to Heaven, she lives not to see this day!--I have fought
and bled for my King.
 The next instant they were lost to sight, and only the crackling
of the underbrush told that they had come into their own.

Herrick dropped to the ground and locked himself inside the preserve.

"I'm going after them," he called, "to see what they'll do."

There was a frantic chorus of entreaties.

"Don't be an ass!" begged Jackson. "They'll eat you." Herrick waved his hand reassuringly.

"They won't even see me," he explained. "I can find my way about this place better than they
can. And I'll keep to windward of them, and watch them. Go to the house," he commanded. "I'll
be with you in an hour, and report."

It was with real relief that, on assembling for dinner, the house party found Herrick, in high
spirits, with the usual number of limbs, and awaiting them. The experiment had proved a great
success. He told how, unheeded by the bears, he had, without difficulty, followed in their
tracks. For an hour he had watched them. No happy school-children, let loose at recess, could
have embraced their freedom with more obvious delight. They drank from the running streams,
for honey they explored the hollow tree-trunks, they sharpened their claws on moss-grown rocks,
and among the fallen oak leaves scratched violently for acorns. So satisfied was Herrick with
what he had seen, with the success of his experiment, and so genuine and unselfish was he in
the thought of the happiness he had brought to the beasts of the forests, that for him no dinner
ever passed more pleasantly. Miss Waring, who sat next to her host, thought she had seldom
met a man with so kind and simple a nature. She rather resented the fact, and she was inwardly
indignant that so much right feeling and affection could be wasted on farmyard fowls, and four-footed
animals. She felt sure that some nice girl, seated at the other end of the table, smiling through
the light of the wax candles upon Herrick, would soon make him forget his love of "Nature and
Nature's children." She even saw herself there, and this may have made her exhibit more interest
in Herrick's experiment than she really felt. In any event, Herrick found her most sympathetic'
and when dinner was over carried her off to a corner of the terrace. It was a warm night in
early October, and the great woods of the game preserve that stretched below them were lit
with a full moon.

On his way to the lake for a moonlight row with one of the house party who belonged to that
sex that does not row, but looks well in the moon-light, Kelly halted, and jeered mockingly.

"How can you sit there," he demanded, "while those poor beasts are freezing in a cave, with
not even a silk coverlet or a pillow-sham. You and your valet ought to be down there now carrying
them pajamas."

"Kelly," declared Herrick, unruffled in his moment of triumph, "I hate to say, 'I told you
so,' but you force me. Go away," he commanded. "You have neither imagination nor soul."

"And that's true," he assured Miss Waring, as Kelly and his companion left them. "Now, I see
nothing in what I accomplished that is ridiculous. Had you watched those bears as I did, you
would have felt that sympathy that exists between all who love the out-of-door life. A dog
loves to see his master pick up his stick and his hat to take him for a walk, and the man enjoys
seeing the dog leaping and quartering the fields before him. They are both the happier. At
least I am happier to-night, knowing those bears are at peace and at home, than I would be
if I thought of them being whipped through their tricks in a dirty theatre." Herrick pointed
to the great forest trees of the preserve, their tops showing dimly in the mist of moonlight.
"Somewhere, down in that valley," he murmured, "are three happy animals. They are no longer
slaves and puppets--they are their own masters. For the rest of their lives they can sleep
on pine needles and dine on nuts and honey. No one shall molest them, no one shall force them
through degrading tricks. Hereafter they can choose their life, and their own home among the
rocks, and the----" Herrick's words were frozen on his tongue. From the other end of the terrace
came a scream so fierce, so long, so full of human suffering, that at the sound the blood of
all that heard it turned to water. It was so appalling that for an instant no one moved, and
then from every part of the house, along the garden walks, from the servants' quarters, came
the sound of pounding feet. Herrick, with Miss Waring clutching at his sleeve, raced toward
the other end of the terrace. They had not far to go. Directly in front of them they saw what
had dragged from the very soul of the woman the scream of terror.

The drawing-room opened upon the terrace, and, seated at the piano, Jackson had been playing
for those in the room to dance. The windows to the terrace were open. The terrace itself was
flooded with moonlight. Seeking the fresh air, one of the dancers stepped from the drawing-room
to the flags outside. She had then raised the cry of terror and fallen in a faint. What she
had seen, Herrick a moment later also saw. On the terrace in the moon-light, Bruno and Clara,
on their hind legs, were solemnly waltzing. "Yes, uncle; but why--"

"Well, my lad," answered his uncle, "I have some bad news to give you. Your father is ill--"

"Then
why am I here?" said Charles. "Nanon," he cried, "order post-horses! I can get a carriage somewhere?"
he added, turning to his uncle, who stood motionless.

"Horses and carriages are useless," answered Grandet, looking at Charles,
who remained silent, his eyes growing fixed. "Yes, my poor boy, you
guess the truth,--he is dead. But that's nothing; there is something
worse: he blew out his brains." His back had been turned for only a few moments, but the time had sufficed.

Lolling with his legs out, stretched in a wicker chair, Herrick beheld the form of Ikey. Between
his uplifted paws he held aloof the base of a decanter; between his teeth, and well jammed
down his throat, was the long neck of the bottle. From it issued the sound of gentle gurgling.
Herrick seized the decanter and hurled it crashing upon the terrace. With difficulty Ikey rose.
Swaying and shaking his head reproachfully, he gave Herrick a perfectly accurate imitation
of an intoxicated bear.

