MY DAYS OF ADVENTURE

    THE FALL OF FRANCE, 1870-71

    By Ernest Alfred Vizetelly

Le Petit Homme Rouge

Author of "The Court of the Tuileries 1852-70" etc.

With A Frontispiece

London, 1914

THE PEOPLE'S WAR

  O husbandmen of hill and dale,
    O dressers of the vines,
  O sea-tossed fighters of the gale,
    O hewers of the mines,
  O wealthy ones who need not strive,
    O sons of learning, art,
  O craftsmen of the city's hive,
    O traders of the man,
  Hark to the cannon's thunder-call
    Appealing to the brave!
  Your France is wounded, and may fall
    Beneath the foreign grave!
  Then gird your loins! Let none delay
    Her glory to maintain;
  Drive out the foe, throw off his sway,
    Win back your land again!

1870. E.A.V.

PREFACE

While this volume is largely of an autobiographical character, it will be found to contain
also a variety of general information concerning the Franco-German War of 1870-71, more particularly
with respect to the second part of that great struggle--the so-called "People's War" which
followed the crash of Sedan and the downfall of the Second French Empire. If I have incorporated
this historical matter in my book, it is because I have repeatedly noticed in these later years
that, whilst English people are conversant with the main facts of the Sedan disaster and such
subsequent outstanding events as the siege of Paris and the capitulation of Metz, they usually
know very little about the manner in which the war generally was carried on by the French under
the virtual dictatorship of Gambetta. Should England ever be invaded by a large hostile force,
we, with our very limited regular army, should probably be obliged to rely largely on elements
similar to those which were called to the field by the French National Defence Government of
1870 after the regular armies of the Empire had been either crushed at Sedan or closely invested
at Metz. For that reason I have always taken a keen interest in our Territorial Force, well
realizing what heavy responsibilities would fall upon it if a powerful enemy should obtain
a footing in this country. Some indication of those responsibilities will be found in the present
book.

Generally speaking, however, I have given only a sketch of the latter part of the Franco-German
War. To have entered into details on an infinity of matters would have necessitated the writing
of a very much longer work. However, I have supplied, I think, a good deal of precise information
respecting the events which I actually witnessed, and in this connexion, perhaps, I may have
thrown some useful sidelights on the war generally; for many things akin to those which I saw,
occurred under more or less similar circumstances in other parts of France.

People who are aware that I am acquainted with the shortcomings of the French in those already
distant days, and that I have watched, as closely as most foreigners can watch, the evolution
of the French army in these later times, have often asked me what, to my thinking, would be
the outcome of another Franco-German War. For many years I fully anticipated another struggle
between the two Powers, and held myself in readiness to do duty as a war-correspondent. Yet, so
far as could be observed in the demeanour of the pleasure-seekers in the Strand on the afternoon
of that same day, things might have been exactly as they were the day before.

We learn that the sub-committee investigating this matter of the thirty-one pennyweight ball
have consulted both the manufacturers and the professionals. A ray
of hope is given by the statement, made on good authority, that "the
manufacturers have adopted a very reasonable attitude." The country
should be grateful for this. There was as much spirit,
as much patriotism, in the days of MacMahon, in the days of Boulanger, and at other periods,
as there is now. The only real novelty that I notice in the France of to-day is the cultivation
of many branches of sport and athletic exercise. Of that kind of thing there was very little
indeed when I was a stripling. But granting that young Frenchmen of to-day are more athletic,
more "fit" than were those of my generation, granting, moreover, that the present organization
and the equipment of the French army are vastly superior to what they were in 1870, and also
that the conditions of warfare have greatly changed, I feel that if France were to engage,
unaided, in a contest with Germany, she would again be worsted, and worsted by her own fault.

She fully knows that she cannot bring into the field anything like as many men as Germany;
and it is in a vain hope of supplying the deficiency that she has lately reverted from a two
to a three years' system of military service. The latter certainly gives her a larger effective
for the first contingencies of a campaign, but in all other respects it is merely a piece of
jugglery, for it does not add a single unit to the total number of Frenchmen capable of bearing
arms. The truth is, that during forty years of prosperity France has been intent on racial
suicide. In the whole of that period only some 3,500,000 inhabitants have been added to her
population, which is now still under 40 millions; whereas that of Germany has increased by
leaps and bounds, and stands at about 66 millions. At the present time the German birth-rate
is certainly falling, but the numerical superiority which Germany has acquired over France
since the war of 1870 is so great that I feel it would be impossible for the latter to triumph
in an encounter unless she should be assisted by powerful allies. Bismarck said in 1870 that
God was on the side of the big battalions; and those big battalions Germany can again supply.
I hold, then, that no such Franco-German war as the last one can again occur. Europe is now
virtually divided into two camps, each composed of three Powers, all of which would be more
or less involved in a Franco-German struggle. The allies and friends on either side are well
aware of it, and in their own interests are bound to exert a restraining influence which makes
for the maintenance of peace. We have had evidence of this in the limitations imposed on the
recent Balkan War.

On the other hand, it is, of course, the unexpected which usually happens; and whilst Europe
generally remains armed to the teeth, and so many jealousies are still rife, no one Power can
in prudence desist from her armaments. We who are the wealthiest nation in Europe spend on
our armaments, in proportion to our wealth and our population, less than any other great Power.
Yet some among us would have us curtail our expenditure, and thereby incur the vulnerability
which would tempt a foe. Undoubtedly the armaments of the present day are great and grievous
burdens on the nations, terrible impediments to social progress, but they constitute, unfortunately,
our only real insurance against war, justifying yet to-day, after so many long centuries, the
truth of the ancient Latin adage--Si vis pacem, para bellum.

It is, I think, unnecessary for me to comment here on the autobiographical part of my book.
It will, I feel, speak for itself. It treats of days long past, and on a few points, perhaps,
my memory may be slightly defective. In preparing my narrative, however, I have constantly
referred to my old diaries, note-books and early newspaper articles, and have done my best
to abstain from all exaggeration. Whether this story of some of my youthful experiences and
impressions of men and things was worth telling or not is a point which I must leave my readers
to decide.

E.A.V.

London, January 1914.

CONTENTS

   I. INTRODUCTORY--SOME EARLY RECOLLECTIONS

  II. THE OUTBREAK OF THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR

 III. ON THE ROAD TO REVOLUTION

  IV. FROM REVOLUTION TO SIEGE

   V. BESIEGED

  VI. MORE ABOUT THE SIEGE DAYS

 VII. FROM PARIS TO VERSAILLES

VIII. FROM VERSAILLES TO BRITTANY

  IX. THE WAR IN THE PROVINCES

   X. WITH THE "ARMY OF BRITTANY"

  XI. BEFORE LE MANS

 XII. LE MANS AND AFTER

XIII. THE BITTER END

      INDEX

    MY DAYS OF ADVENTURE

I

INTRODUCTORY--SOME EARLY RECOLLECTIONS

The Vizetelly Family--My Mother and her Kinsfolk--The Illustrated Times and its Staff--My Unpleasant
Disposition--Thackeray and my First Half-Crown--School days at Eastbourne--Queen Alexandra--Garibaldi--A
few old Plays and Songs--Nadar and the "Giant" Balloon--My Arrival in France-- My Tutor Brossard--Berezowski's
Attempt on Alexander II--My Apprenticeship to Journalism--My first Article--I see some French
Celebrities--Visits to the Tuileries--At Compiegne--A few Words with Napoleon III--A "Revolutionary"
Beard.

This is an age of "Reminiscences," and although I have never played any part in the world's
affairs, I have witnessed so many notable things and met so many notable people during the
three-score years which I have lately completed, that it is perhaps allowable for me to add
yet another volume of personal recollections to the many which have already poured from the
press. On starting on an undertaking of this kind it is usual, I perceive by the many examples
around me, to say something about one's family and upbringing. There is less reason for me
to depart from this practice, as in the course of the present volume it will often be necessary
for me to refer to some of my near relations. A few years ago a distinguished Italian philosopher
and author, Angelo de Gubernatis, was good enough to include me in a dictionary of writers
belonging to the Latin races, and stated, in doing so, that the Vizetellys were of French origin.
That was a rather curious mistake on the part of an Italian writer, the truth being that the
family originated at Ravenna, where some members of it held various offices in the Middle Ages.
Subsequently, after dabbling in a conspiracy, some of the Vizzetelli fled to Venice and took
to glass-making there, until at last Jacopo, from whom I am descended, came to England in the
spacious days of Queen Elizabeth. From that time until my own the men of my family invariably
married English women, so that very little Italian blood can flow in my veins.

Matrimonial alliances are sometimes of more than personal interest. One point has particularly
struck me in regard to those contracted by members of my own family, this being the diversity
of English counties from which the men have derived their wives and the women their husbands.
References to Cheshire, Lancashire, Yorkshire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire, Leicestershire,
Berkshire, Bucks, Suffolk, Kent, Surrey, Sussex, and Devonshire, in addition to Middlesex,
otherwise London, appear in my family papers. We have become connected with Johnstons, Burslems,
Bartletts, Pitts, Smiths, Wards, Covells, Randalls, Finemores, Radfords, Hindes, Pollards,
Lemprieres, Wakes, Godbolds, Ansells, Fennells, Vaughans, Edens, Scotts, and Pearces, and I
was the very first member of the family (subsequent to its arrival in England) to take a foreigner
as wife, she being the daughter of a landowner of Savoy who proceeded from the Tissots of Switzerland.
My elder brother Edward subsequently married a Burgundian girl named Clerget, and my stepbrother
Frank chose an American one, nee Krehbiel, as his wife, these marriages occurring because circumstances
led us to live for many years abroad.

Among the first London parishes with which the family was connected was St. Botolph's, Bishopsgate,
where my forerunner, the first Henry Vizetelly, was buried in 1691, he then being fifty years
of age, and where my father, the second Henry of the name, was baptised soon after his birth
in 1820. St. Bride's, Fleet Street, was, however, our parish for many years, as its registers
testify, though in 1781 my great-grandfather was resident in the parish of St. Ann's, Blackfriars,
and was elected constable thereof. At that date the family name, which figures in old English
registers under a variety of forms--Vissitaler, Vissitaly, Visataly, Visitelly, Vizetely, etc.--was
by him spelt Vizzetelly, as is shown by documents now in the Guildhall Library; but a few years
later he dropped the second z, with the idea, perhaps, of giving the name a more English appearance.

This great-grandfather of mine was, like his father before him, a printer and a member of the
Stationers' Company. He was twice married, having by his first wife two sons, George and William,
neither of whom left posterity. The former, I believe, died in the service of the Honourable
East India Company. In June, 1775, however, my great-grandfather married Elizabeth, daughter
of James Hinde, stationer, of Little Moorfields, and had by her, first, a daughter Elizabeth,
from whom some of the Burslems and Godbolds are descended; and, secondly, twins, a boy and
a girl, who were respectively christened James Henry and Mary Mehetabel. The former became
my grandfather. In August, 1816, he married, at St. Bride's, Martha Jane Vaughan, daughter
of a stage-coach proprietor of Chester, and had by her a daughter, who died unmarried, and
four sons--my father, Henry Richard, and my uncles James, Frank, and Frederick Whitehead Vizetelly.

Some account of my grandfather is given in my father's "Glances Back through Seventy Years,"
and I need not add to it here. I will only say that, like his immediate forerunners, James
Henry Vizetelly was a printer and freeman of the city. A clever versifier, and so able as an
amateur actor that on certain occasions he replaced Edmund Kean on the boards when the latter
was hopelessly drunk, he died in 1840, leaving his two elder sons, James and Henry, to carry
on the printing business, which was then established in premises occupying the site of the
Daily Telegraph building in Fleet Street.

In 1844 my father married Ellen Elizabeth, only child of John Pollard, M.D., a member of the
ancient Yorkshire family of the Pollards of Bierley and Brunton, now chiefly represented, I
believe, by the Pollards of Scarr Hall. John Pollard's wife, Charlotte Maria Fennell, belonged
to a family which gave officers to the British Navy--one of them serving directly under Nelson--and
clergy to the Church of England. The Fennells were related to the Bronte sisters through the
latter's mother; and one was closely connected with the Shackle who founded the original John
Bull newspaper. Those, then, were my kinsfolk on the maternal side. My mother presented my
father with seven children, of whom I was the sixth, being also the fourth son. I was born
on November 29, 1853, at a house called Chalfont Lodge in Campden House Road, Kensington, and
well do I remember the great conflagration which destroyed the fine old historical mansion
built by Baptist Hicks, sometime a mercer in Cheapside and ultimately Viscount Campden. But
another scene which has more particularly haunted me all through my life was that of my mother's
sudden death in a saloon carriage of an express train on the London and Brighton line. Though
she was in failing health, nobody thought her end so near; but in the very midst of a journey
to London, whilst the train was rushing on at full speed, and no help could be procured, a
sudden weakness came over her, and in a few minutes she passed away. I was very young at the
time, barely five years old, yet everything still rises before me with all the vividness of
an imperishable memory. Again, too, I see that beautiful intellectual brow and those lustrous
eyes, and hear that musical voice, and feel the gentle touch of that loving motherly hand. The
Daily Chronicle correspondent also announces that representatives of American golf are to visit
St. Andrews in the Spring to discuss the question. We trust their visit may not be too late.
If the problem is one that can be solved by dollars no doubt they will come well-equipped for enforcing
American opinion on the British public.

We can only hope that international relationships will not be strained by their deliberations;
let there be a spirit of toleration and a recognition of the rights of small nations, and all
may yet be well.
 It was issued at threepence per copy, and an old memorandum of the printers now lying
before me shows that in the paper's earlier years the average printings were 130,000 copies
weekly--a notable figure for that period, and one which was considerably exceeded when any
really important event occurred. My father was the chief editor and manager, his leading coadjutor
being Frederick Greenwood, who afterwards founded the Pall Mall Gazette. I do not think that
Greenwood's connection with the Illustrated Times and with my father's other journal, the Welcome
Guest, is mentioned in any of the accounts of his career. The literary staff included four
of the Brothers Mayhew-- Henry, Jules, Horace, and Augustus, two of whom, Jules and Horace,
became godfathers to my father's first children by his second wife. Then there were also William
and Robert Brough, Edmund Yates, George Augustus Sala, Hain Friswell, W.B. Rands, Tom Robertson,
Sutherland Edwards, James Hannay, Edward Draper, and Hale White (father of "Mark Rutherford"),
and several artists and engravers, such as Birket Foster, "Phiz." Portch, Andrews, Duncan,
Skelton, Bennett, McConnell, Linton, London, and Horace Harrall. I saw all those men in my
early years, for my father was very hospitably inclined, and they were often guests at Chalfont
Lodge.

After my mother's death, my grandmother, nee Vaughan, took charge of the establishment, and
I soon became the terror of the house, developing a most violent temper and acquiring the vocabulary
of the roughest market porter. My wilfulness was probably innate (nearly all the Vizetellys
having had impulsive wills of their own), and my flowery language was picked up by perversely
loitering to listen whenever there happened to be a street row in Church Lane, which I had
to cross on my way to or from Kensington Gardens, my daily place of resort. At an early age
I started bullying my younger brother, I defied my grandmother, insulted the family doctor
because he was too fond of prescribing grey powders for my particular benefit, and behaved
abominably to the excellent Miss Lindup of Sheffield Terrace, who endeavoured to instruct me
in the rudiments of reading, writing, and arithmetic. I frequently astonished or appalled the
literary men and artists who were my father's guests. I hated being continually asked what
I should like to be when I grew up, and the slightest chaff threw me into a perfect paroxysm
of passion. Whilst, however, I was resentful of the authority of others, I was greatly inclined
to exercise authority myself--to such a degree, indeed, that my father's servants generally
spoke of me as "the young master," regardless of the existence of my elder brothers.

Having already a retentive memory, I was set to learn sundry "recitations," and every now and
then was called upon to emerge from behind the dining-room curtains and repeat "My Name is
Norval" or "The Spanish Armada," for the delectation of my father's friends whilst they lingered
over their wine. Disaster generally ensued, provoked either by some genial chaff or well-meant
criticism from such men as Sala and Augustus Mayhew, and I was ultimately carried off--whilst
venting incoherent protests--to be soundly castigated and put to bed.

Among the real celebrities who occasionally called at Chalfont Lodge was Thackeray, whom I
can still picture sitting on one side of the fireplace, whilst my father sat on the other,
I being installed on the hearthrug between them. Provided that I was left to myself, I could
behave decently enough, discreetly preserving silence, and, indeed, listening intently to the
conversation of my father's friends, and thereby picking up a very odd mixture of knowledge.
I was, I believe, a pale little chap with lank fair hair and a wistful face, and no casual
observer would have imagined that my nature was largely compounded of such elements as enter
into the composition of Italian brigands, Scandinavian pirates, and wild Welshmen. Thackeray,
at all events, did not appear to think badly of the little boy who sat so quietly at his feet.
One day, indeed, when he came upon me and my younger brother Arthur, with our devoted attendant
Selina Horrocks, in Kensington Gardens, he put into practice his own dictum that one could
never see a schoolboy without feeling an impulse to dip one's hand in one's pocket. Accordingly
he presented me with the first half-crown I ever possessed, for though my father's gifts were
frequent they were small. It was understood, I believe, that I was to share the aforesaid half-crown
with my brother Arthur, but in spite of the many remonstrances of the faithful Selina--a worthy
West-country woman, who had largely taken my mother's place--I appropriated the gift in its
entirety, and became extremely ill by reason of my many indiscreet purchases at a tuck-stall
which stood, if I remember rightly, at a corner of the then renowned Kensington Flower Walk.
This incident must have occurred late in Thackeray's life. My childish recollection of him
is that of a very big gentleman with beaming eyes.

My grandmother's reign in my father's house was not of great duration, as in February, 1861,
he contracted a second marriage, taking on this occasion as his wife a "fair maid of Kent,"
[Elizabeth Anne Ansell, of Broadstairs; mother of my step-brother, Dr. Frank H. Vizetelly,
editor of the "Standard Dictionary," New York.] to whose entry into our home I was at first
violently opposed, but who promptly won me over by her unremitting affection and kindness,
eventually becoming the best and truest friend of my youth and early manhood. My circumstances
changed, however, soon after that marriage, for as I was now nearly eight years old it was
deemed appropriate that I should be sent to a boarding-school, both by way of improving my
mind and of having some nonsense knocked out of me, which, indeed, was promptly accomplished
by the pugnacious kindness of my schoolfellows. Among the latter was one, my senior by a few
years, who became a very distinguished journalist. I refer to the late Horace Voules, so long
associated with Labouchere's journal, Truth. My brother Edward was also at the same school,
and my brother Arthur came there a little later.

It was situated at Eastbourne, and a good deal has been written about it in recent works on
the history of that well-known watering-place, which, when I was first sent there, counted
less than 6000 inhabitants. Located in the old town or village, at a distance of a mile or
more from the sea, the school occupied a building called "The Gables," and was an offshoot
of a former ancient school connected with the famous parish church. In my time this "academy"
was carried on as a private venture by a certain James Anthony Bown, a portly old gentleman
of considerable attainments.

I was unusually precocious in some respects, and though I frequently got into scrapes by playing
impish tricks--as, for instance, when I combined with others to secure an obnoxious French
master to his chair by means of some cobbler's wax, thereby ruining a beautiful pair of peg-top
trousers which he had just purchased--I did not neglect my lessons, but secured a number of
"prizes" with considerable facility. When I was barely twelve years old, not one of my schoolfellows--and
some were sixteen and seventeen years old--could compete with me in Latin, in which language
Bown ended by taking me separately. I also won three or four prizes for "excelling" my successive
classes in English grammar as prescribed by the celebrated Lindley Murray.

In spite of my misdeeds (some of which, fortunately, were never brought home to me), I became,
I think, somewhat of a favourite with the worthy James Anthony, for he lent me interesting
books to read, occasionally had me to supper in his own quarters, and was now and then good
enough to overlook the swollen state of my nose or the blackness of one of my eyes when I had
been having a bout with a schoolfellow or a young clodhopper of the village. The result is that,
after stringing us up to face a tragic situation, he is tempted to
let us down with light-hearted cynicisms. He would hate me to suggest
that Mr. BERNARD SHAW has infected him, but perhaps he wouldn't mind
my hinting at the influence of Sir JAMES BARRIE.
I received firstly the nickname of Moses, through falling among some rushes whilst fielding
a ball at cricket; and secondly, that of Noses, because my nasal organ, like that of Cyrano
de Bergerac, suddenly grew to huge proportions, in such wise that it embodied sufficient material
for two noses of ordinary dimensions. Its size was largely responsible for my defeats when
fighting, for I found it difficult to keep guard over such a prominent organ and prevent my
claret from being tapped.

Having generations of printers' ink mingled with my blood, I could not escape the unkind fate
which made me a writer of articles and books. In conjunction with a chum named Clement Ireland
I ran a manuscript school journal, which included stories of pirates and highwaymen, illustrated
with lurid designs in which red ink was plentifully employed in order to picture the gore which
flowed so freely through the various tales. My grandmother Vaughan was an inveterate reader
of the London Journal and the Family Herald, and whenever I went home for my holidays I used
to pounce upon those journals and devour some of the stories of the author of "Minnegrey,"
as well as Miss Braddon's "Aurora Floyd" and "Henry Dunbar." The perusal of books by Ainsworth,
Scott, Lever, Marryat, James Grant, G. P. R. James, Dumas, and Whyte Melville gave me additional
material for storytelling; and so, concocting wonderful blends of all sorts of fiction, I spun
many a yarn to my schoolfellows in the dormitory in which I slept--yarns which were sometimes
supplied in instalments, being kept up for a week or longer.

My summer holidays were usually spent in the country, but at other times I went to London,
and was treated to interesting sights. At Kensington, in my earlier years, I often saw Queen
Victoria and the Prince Consort with their children, notably the Princess Royal (Empress Frederick)
and the Prince of Wales (Edward VII). When the last-named married the "Sea-King's daughter
from over the sea"--since then our admired and gracious Queen Alexandra--and they drove together
through the crowded streets of London on their way to Windsor, I came specially from Eastbourne
to witness that triumphal progress, and even now I can picture the young prince with his round
chubby face and little side-whiskers, and the vision of almost tearfully-smiling beauty, in
blue and white, which swept past my eager boyish eyes.

