"Well--yes; in those early days Christians were only to be had by converting Jews or Pagans;
and in those days they did actually become Christians. But the Groschuts are a mistake." Then
he called to Mary, and in a few minutes she was in her husband's arms on the staircase. The
Dean did not follow them, but went into his own room on the ground floor; and Lord George did
not see him again on that day.

Lord George remained with his wife nearly all the afternoon, going out with her into the town
as she did some little shopping, and being seen with her in the market-place and Close. It
must be owned of Mary that she was proud thus to be seen with him again, and that in buying
her ribbons and gloves she referred to him, smiling as he said this, and pouting and pretending
to differ as he said that, with greater urgency than she would have done had there been no
breach between them. It had been terrible to her to think that there should be a quarrel,--terrible
to her that the world should think so. There was a gratification to her in feeling that even
the shopkeepers should see her and her husband together. And when she met Canon Pountner and
stopped a moment in the street while that worthy divine shook hands with her husband, that
was an additional pleasure to her. The last few weeks had been heavy to her in spite of her
father's affectionate care,--heavy with a feeling of disgrace from which no well-minded young
married woman can quite escape, when she is separated from her husband. She had endeavoured
to do right. She thought she was doing right. But it was so sad! She was fond of pleasure,
whereas he was little given to any amusement; but no pleasures could be pleasant to her now
unless they were in some sort countenanced by him. She had never said such a word to a human
being, but since that dancing of the Kappa-kappa she had sworn to herself a thousand times
that she would never waltz again. And she hourly yearned for his company, having quite got
over that first difficulty of her married life, that doubt whether she could ever learn to
love her husband. During much of this day she was actually happy in spite of the great sorrow
which still weighed so heavily upon them both.

And he liked it also in his way. He thought that he had never seen her looking more lovely.
He was sure that she had never been more gracious to him. The touch of her hand was pleasant
to his arm, and even he had sufficient spirit of fun about him to enjoy something of the mirth
of her little grimaces. When he told her what her father had said about Mr. Groschut, even
he laughed at her face of assumed disgust. "Papa doesn't hate him half as much as I do," she
said. "Papa always does forgive at last, but I never can forgive Mr. Groschut."

"What has the poor man done?"

"He is so nasty! Don't you see that his face always shines. Any man with a shiny face ought
to be hated." This was very well to give as a reason, but Mary entertained a very correct idea
as to Mr. Groschut's opinion of herself.

Not a word had been said between the husband and wife as to the great question of residence
till they had returned to the deanery after their walk. Then Lord George found himself unable
to conceal from her the offer which the Dean had made. "Oh, George,--why don't you come?"

"It would not be--fitting."

"Fitting! Why not fitting? I think it would fit admirably. I know it would fit me." Then she
leaned over him and took his hand and kissed it.

"It was very good of your father."

"I am sure he meant to be good."

"It was very good of your father," Lord George repeated,--"very good indeed; but it cannot
be. A married woman should live in her husband's house and not in her father's."

Mary gazed into his face with a perplexed look, not quite understanding the whole question,
but still with a clear idea as to a part of it. All that might be very true, but if a husband
didn't happen to have a house then might not the wife's father's house be a convenience? They
had indeed a house, provided no doubt with her money, but not the less now belonging to her
husband, in which she would be very willing to live if he pleased it,--the house in Munster
Court. It was her husband that made objection to their own house. It was her husband who wished
to live near Manor Cross, not having a roof of his own under which to do so. Were not these
circumstances which ought to have made the deanery a convenience to him? "Then what will you
do?" she asked.

"I cannot say as yet." He had become again gloomy and black-browed.

"Wouldn't you come here--for a week?"

"I think not, my dear."

"Not when you know how happy it would make me to have you with me once again. I do so long
to be telling you everything." Then she leant against him and embraced him, and implored him
to grant her this favour. But he would not yield. He had told himself that the Dean had interfered
between him and his wife, and that he must at any rate go through the ceremony of taking his
wife away from her father. Let it be accorded to him that he had done that, and then perhaps
he might visit the deanery. As for her, she would have gone with him anywhere now, having fully
established her right to visit her father after leaving London.

There was nothing further settled, and very little more said, when Lord George left the deanery
and started back to Manor Cross. But with Mary there had been left a certain comfort. The shopkeepers
and Dr. Pountner had seen her with her husband, and Mr. Groschut had met Lord George at the
deanery door.

CHAPTER L.

RUDHAM PARK.

Lord George had undertaken to leave Manor Cross by the middle of August, but when the first
week of that month had passed away he had not as yet made up his mind what he would do with
himself. Mr. Knox had told him that should he remain with his mother the Marquis would not,
as Mr. Knox thought, take further notice of the matter; but on such terms as these he could
not consent to live in his brother's house.

On a certain day early in August Lord George had gone with a return ticket to a town but a
few miles distant from Brotherton to sit on a committee for the distribution of coals and blankets,
and in the afternoon got into a railway carriage on his way home. How great was his consternation
when, on taking his seat, he found that his brother was seated alongside of him! There was
one other old gentleman in the carriage, and the three passengers were all facing the engine.
On two of the seats opposite were spread out the Marquis's travelling paraphernalia,--his French
novel, at which he had not looked, his dressing bag, the box in which his luncheon had been
packed, and his wine flask. There was a small basket of strawberries, should he be inclined
to eat fruit, and an early peach out of a hothouse, with some flowers. "God Almighty, George;--is
that you?" he said. "Where the devil have you been?"

"I've been to Grumby."

"And what are the people doing at Grumby?"

"Much the same as usual. It was the coal and blanket account."

"Oh!--the coal and blanket account! I hope you liked it." Then he folded himself afresh in
his cloaks, ate a strawberry, and looked as though he had taken sufficient notice of his brother.

But the matter was very important to Lord George. Nothing ever seemed to be of importance to
the Marquis. It might be very probable that the Marquis, with half-a-dozen servants behind
him, should drive up to the door at Manor Cross without having given an hour's notice of his
intention. It seemed to be too probable to Lord George that such would be the case now. For
what other reason could he be there? And then there was his back. Though they had quarrelled
he was bound to ask after his brother's back. When last they two had met, the Marquis had been
almost carried into the room by two men. "I hope you find yourself better than when I last
saw you," he said, after a pause of five minutes.

"I've not much to boast of. I can just travel, and that's all."

"And how is--Popenjoy?"

"Upon my word I can't tell you. He has never seemed to be very well when I've seen him."

"I hope the accounts have been better," said Lord George, with solicitude.

"Coal and blanket accounts!" suggested the Marquis. And then the conversation was again brought
to an end for five minutes.

But it was essential that Lord George should know whither his brother was going. If to Manor
Cross, then, thought Lord George, he himself would stay at an inn at Brotherton. Anything,
even the deanery, would be better than sitting at table with his brother, with the insults
of their last interview unappeased. At the end of five minutes he plucked up his courage, and
asked his brother another question. "Are you going to the house, Brotherton?"

"The house! What house? I'm going to a house, I hope."

"I mean to Manor Cross."

"Not if I know it. There is no house in this part of the country in which I should be less
likely to show my face." Then there was not another word said till they reached the Brotherton
Station, and there the Marquis, who was sitting next the door, requested his brother to leave
the carriage first. "Get out, will you?" he said. "I must wait for somebody to come and take
these things. And don't trample on me more than you can help." This last request had apparently
been made, because Lord George was unable to step across him without treading on the cloak.

"I will say good-bye, then," said Lord George, turning round on the platform for a moment.

"Ta, ta," said the Marquis, as he gave his attention to the servant who was collecting the
fruit, and the flowers, and the flask. Lord George then passed on out of the station, and saw
no more of his brother.

"Of course he is going to Rudham," said Lady Susanna, when she heard the story. Rudham Park
was the seat of Mr. De Baron, Mrs. Houghton's father, and tidings had reached Manor Cross long
since that the Marquis had promised to go there in the autumn. No doubt other circumstances
had seemed to make it improbable that the promise should be kept. Popenjoy had gone away ill,--as
many said, in a dying condition. Then the Marquis had been thrown into a fireplace, and report
had said that his back had been all but broken. It had certainly been generally thought that
the Marquis would go nowhere after that affair in the fireplace, till he returned to Italy.
But Lady Susanna was, in truth, right. His Lordship was on his way to Rudham Park.

Mr. De Baron, of Rudham Park, though a much older man than the Marquis, had been the Marquis's
friend,--when the Marquis came of age, being then the Popenjoy of those days and a fast young
man known as such about England. Mr. De Baron, who was a neighbour, had taken him by the hand.
Mr. De Baron had put him in the way of buying and training race-horses, and had, perhaps, been
godfather to his pleasures in other matters. Rudham Park had never been loved at Manor Cross
by others than the present Lord, and for that reason, perhaps, was dearer to him. He had promised
to go there soon after his return to England, and was now keeping his promise. On his arrival
there the Marquis found a houseful of people. There were Mr. and Mrs. Houghton, and Lord Giblet,
who, having engaged himself rashly to Miss Patmore Green, had rushed out of town sooner than
usual that he might devise in retirement some means of escaping from his position; and, to
Lord Giblet's horror, there was Mrs. Montacute Jones, who, he well knew, would, if possible,
keep him to the collar. There was also Aunt Julia, with her niece Guss, and of course, there
was Jack De Baron. The Marquis was rather glad to meet Jack, as to whom he had some hope that
he might be induced to run away with Lord George's wife, and thus free the Germain family from
that little annoyance. But the guest who surprised the Marquis the most, was the Baroness Banmann,
whose name and occupation he did not at first learn very distinctly.

"All right again, my lord?" asked Mr. De Baron, as he welcomed his noble guest.

"Upon my word I'm not, then. That coal-heaving brute of a parson pretty nearly did for me."

"A terrible outrage it was."

"Outrage! I should think so. There's nothing so bad as a clerical bully. What was I to do with
him? Of course he was the stronger. I don't pretend to be a Samson. One doesn't expect that
kind of thing among gentlemen?"

"No, indeed."

"I wish I could have him somewhere with a pair of foils with the buttons off. His black coat
shouldn't save his intestines. I don't know what the devil the country is come to, when such
a fellow as that is admitted into people's houses."

"You won't meet him here, Brotherton."

"I wish I might. I think I'd manage to be even with him before he got away. Who's the Baroness
you have got?"

"I don't know much about her. My daughter Adelaide,--Mrs. Houghton, you know,--has brought
her down. There's been some row among the women up in London. This is one of the prophets,
and I think she is brought here to spite Lady Selina Protest who has taken an American prophetess
by the hand. She won't annoy you, I hope?"

"Not in the least. I like strange wild beasts. And so that is Captain De Baron, of whom I have
heard?"

"That is my nephew, Jack. He has a small fortune of his own, which he is spending fast. As
long as it lasts one has to be civil to him."

"I am delighted to meet him. Don't they say he is sweet on a certain young woman?"

"A dozen, I believe."

"Ah,--but one I know something of."

"I don't think there is anything in that, Brotherton;--I don't, indeed, or I shouldn't have
brought him here."

"I do, though. And as to not bringing him here, why shouldn't you bring him? If she don't go
off with him, she will with somebody else, and the sooner the better, according to my ideas."
This was a matter upon which Mr. De Baron was not prepared to dilate, and he therefore changed
the subject.

"My dear Lord Giblet, it is such a pleasure to me to meet you here," old Mrs. Jones said to
that young nobleman. This granted, it is a short though important step to the theory of rent.
The English system had, in fact, spontaneously analysed the problem. The landlord, farmer, and
labourer represented the three interests which might elsewhere be combined. Prices raised
by war and famine had led to the enclosure of wastes and the breaking
up of pastures.

The 'margin of cultivation' was thus illustrated by facts.

Farmers were complaining that they could not make a profit if prices
were lowered.



"Who says he does? But I'll tell you who dances well. Olivia Green was charming in the Kappa-kappa.
Don't you think so?"

"Uncommon pretty." Lord Giblet was quite willing to be understood to admire Miss Patmore Green,
though he thought it hard that people should hurry him on into matrimony.

"The most graceful girl I ever saw in my life, certainly," said Mrs. Montacute Jones. "His
Royal Highness, when he heard of the engagement, said that you were the happiest man in London."

Lord Giblet could not satisfy himself by declaring that H.R.H. was an old fool, as poor Mary
had done on a certain occasion,--but at the present moment he did not feel at all loyal to
the Royal Family generally. Nor did he, in the least, know how to answer Mrs. Jones. She had
declared the engagement as a fact, and he did not quite dare to deny it altogether. He had,
in an unguarded moment, when the weather had been warm and the champagne cool, said a word
with so definite a meaning that the lady had been justified in not allowing it to pass by as
idle. The lady had accepted him, and on the following morning he had found the lock of hair
and the little stud which she had given him, and had feverish reminiscences of a kiss. But
surely he was not a bird to be caught with so small a grain of salt as that! He had not as
yet seen Mr. Patmore Green, having escaped from London at once. He had answered a note from
Olivia, which had called him "dearest Charlie" by a counter note, in which he had called her
"dear O," and had signed himself "ever yours, G," promising to meet her up the river. But of
course he had not gone up the river! The rest of the season might certainly be done without
assistance from him. He knew that he would be pursued. He could not hope not to be pursued.
But he had not thought that Mrs. Montacute Jones would be so quick upon him. It was impossible
that H.R.H should have heard of any engagement as yet. What a nasty, false, wicked old woman
she was! He blushed, red as a rose, and stammered out that he "didn't know." He was only four-and-twenty,
and perhaps he didn't know.

"I never saw a girl so much in love in my life," continued Mrs. Jones. "I know her just as
well as if she were my own, and she speaks to me as she doesn't dare to speak to you at present.
Though she is barely twenty-one, she has been very much sought after already, and the very
day she marries she has ten thousand pounds in her own hands. That isn't a large fortune, and
of course you don't want a large fortune, but it isn't every girl can pay such a sum straight
into her husband's bank the moment she marries!"

"No, indeed," said Lord Giblet. He was still determined that nothing should induce him to marry
Miss Green; but nevertheless, behind that resolution there was a feeling, that if anything
should bring about the marriage, such a sum of ready money would be a consolation. His father,
the Earl of Jopling, though a very rich man, kept him a little close, and ten thousand pounds
would be nice. But then, perhaps the old woman was lying.

"Now I'll tell you what I want you to do," said Mrs. Jones, who was resolved that if the game
were not landed it should not be her fault. "We go from here to Killancodlem next week. You
must come and join us."

"I've got to go and grouse at Stranbracket's," said Lord Giblet, happy in an excuse.

"It couldn't be better. They're both within eight miles of Dunkeld." If so, then ropes shouldn't
take him to Stranbracket's that year. "Of course you'll come. It's the prettiest place in Perth,
though I say it, as oughtn't. And she will be there. If you really want to know a girl, see
her in a country house."

But he didn't really want to know the girl. She was very nice, and he liked her uncommonly,
but he didn't want to know anything more about her. By George! Was a man to be persecuted this
way, because he had once spooned a girl a little too fiercely? As he thought of this he almost
plucked up his courage sufficiently to tell Mrs. Jones that she had better pick out some other
young man for deportation to Killancodlem. "I should like it ever so," he said.

"I'll take care that you shall like it, Lord Giblet. I think I may boast that when I put my
wits to work I can make my house agreeable. I'm very fond of young people, but there's no one
I love as I do Olivia Green. There isn't a young woman in London has so much to be loved for.
Of course you'll come. What day shall we name?"

"I don't think I could name a day."

"Let us say the 27th. That will give you nearly a week at the grouse first. Be with us to dinner
on the 27th."

"Well,--perhaps I will."

"Of course you will. I shall write to Olivia to-night, and I daresay you will do so also."

Lord Giblet, when he was let to go, tried to suck consolation from the £10,000. Though he was
still resolved, he almost believed that Mrs. Montacute Jones would conquer him. Write to Olivia
to-night! Lying, false old woman! Of course she knew that there was hardly a lady in England
to whom it was so little likely that he should write as to Miss Patmore Green. How could an
old woman, with one foot in the grave, be so wicked? And why should she persecute him? What
had he done to her? Olivia Green was not her daughter, or even her niece. "So you are going
to Killancodlem?" Mrs. Houghton said to him that afternoon.

"She has asked me," said Lord Giblet.

"It's simply the most comfortable house in all Scotland, and they tell me some of the best
deer-stalking. Everybody likes to get to Killancodlem. Don't you love old Mrs. Jones?"

"Charming old woman!"

"And such a friend! If she once takes to you she never drops you."

"Sticks like wax, I should say."

"Quite like wax, Lord Giblet. And when she makes up her mind to do a thing she always does
it. It's quite wonderful; but she never gets beaten."

"Doesn't she now?"

"Never. She hasn't asked us to Killancodlem yet, but I hope she will." A manly resolution now
roused itself in Lord Giblet's bosom that he would be the person to beat Mrs. Jones at last.
But yet he doubted. If he were asked the question by anyone having a right to ask he could
not deny that he had proposed to marry Miss Patmore Green.

"So you've come down to singe your wings again?" said Mrs. Houghton to her cousin Jack.

"My wings have been burned clean away already, and, in point of fact, I am not half so near
to Lady George here as I was in London."

"It's only ten miles."

"If it were five it would be the same. We're not in the same set down in Barsetshire."

"I suppose you can have yourself taken to Brotherton if you please?"

"Yes,--I can call at the deanery; but I shouldn't know what to say when I got there."

"You've become very mealy-mouthed of a sudden."

"Not with you, my sweet cousin. With you I can discuss the devil and all his works as freely
as ever; but with Lady George, at her father's house, I think I should be dumb. In truth, I
haven't got anything to say to her."

"I thought you had."

"I know you think so; but I haven't. It is quite on the card that I may ride over some day,
as I would to see my sister."

"Your sister!"

"And that I shall make eager enquiries after her horse, her pet dog, and her husband."

"You will be wrong there, for she has quarrelled with her husband altogether."

"I hope not."

"They are not living together, and never even see each other. He's at Manor Cross, and she's
at the deanery. She's a divinity to you, but Lord George seems to have found her so human that
he's tired of her already."

"Then it must be his own fault."

"Or perhaps yours, Jack. You don't suppose a husband goes through a little scene like that
at Mrs. Jones' without feeling it?"

"He made an ass of himself, and a man generally feels that afterwards," said Jack.

"The truth is, they're tired of each other. There isn't very much in Lord George, but there
is something. He is slow, but there is a certain manliness at the bottom of it. But there isn't
very much in her!"

"That's all you know about it."

"Perhaps you may know her better, but I never could find anything. You confess to being in
love, and of course a lover is blind. But where you are most wrong is in supposing that she
is something so much better than other women. She flirted with you so frankly that she made
you think her a goddess."

"She never flirted with me in her life."

"Exactly;--because flirting is bad, and she being a goddess cannot do evil. I wish you'd take
her in your arms and kiss her."

"I shouldn't dare."

"No;--and therefore you're not in the way to learn that she's a woman just the same as other
women. Will Mrs. Jones succeed with that stupid young man?"

"With Giblet? I hope so. It can't make any difference to him whether it's this one or another,
and I do like Mrs. Jones."

"Would they let me have just a little lecture in the dining-room?" asked the Baroness of her
friend, Aunt Ju. There had been certain changes among the Disabilities up in London. Lady Selina
Protest had taken Dr. Olivia Q. Fleabody altogether by the hand, and had appointed her chief
professor at the Institute, perhaps without sufficient authority. Aunt Ju had been cast into
the shade, and had consequently been driven to throw herself into the arms of the Baroness.
At present there was a terrible feud in which Aunt Ju was being much worsted. For the Baroness
was an old Man of the Sea, and having got herself on to Aunt Ju's shoulders could not be shaken
off. In the meantime Dr. Fleabody was filling the Institute, reaping a golden harvest, and
breaking the heart of the poor Baroness, who had fallen into much trouble and was now altogether
penniless.

"I'm afraid not," said Aunt Ju. "I'm afraid we can't do that."

"Perhaps de Marquis would like it?"

"I hardly think so."

"He did say a word to me, and I tink he would like it. He vant to understand."

"My dear Baroness, I'm sure the Marquis of Brotherton does not care about it in the least.
He is quite in the dark on such subjects--quite benighted." What was the use, thought the Baroness,
of bringing her down to a house in which people were so benighted that she could not be allowed
to open her mouth or carry on her profession. Had she not been enticed over from her own country
in order that she might open her mouth, and preach her doctrine, and become a great and a wealthy
woman? There was a fraud in this enforced silence which cut her to the very quick. "I tink
I shall try," she said, separating herself in her wrath from her friend.

CHAPTER LI.

GUSS MILDMAY'S SUCCESS.

The treatment which the Marquis received at Rudham did not certainly imply any feeling that
he had disgraced himself by what he had done either at Manor Cross or up in London. That makes
it a splendid program for Miss Adams. Making it a three-act play is fine for this side, as I
cabled you. All the Americans coming home who have seen your play are delighted with it in
every way. Hope all is going well. I am leaving to-morrow to meet Maude Adams and see the piece
that she is now playing called "Peter Pan." I shall be away from New York for perhaps a week, and
on my return I will write you again fully. There was still a good deal
of mystery, both as to Popenjoy and as to the fireplace, and the Marquis was the hero of these
mysteries. Everyone at Rudham was anxious to sit by his side and to be allowed to talk to him.
When he abused the Dean, which he did freely, those who heard him assented to all he said.
The Baroness Banmann held up her hands in horror when she heard the tale, and declared the
Church to be one grand bêtise. Mrs. Houghton, who was very attentive to the Marquis and whom
the Marquis liked, was pertinacious in her enquiries after Popenjoy, and cruelly sarcastic
upon the Dean. "Think what was his bringing up," said Mrs. Houghton.

"In a stable," said the Marquis.

"I always felt it to be a great pity that Lord George should have made that match;--not but
what she is a good creature in her way."

"She is no better than she should be," said the Marquis. Then Mrs. Houghton found herself able
to insinuate that perhaps, after all, Mary was not a good creature, even in her own way. But
the Marquis's chief friend was Jack De Baron. He talked to Jack about races and billiards,
and women; but though he did not refrain from abusing the Dean, he said no word to Jack against
Mary. If it might be that the Dean should receive his punishment in that direction he would
do nothing to prevent it. "They tell me she's a beautiful woman. I have never seen her myself,"
said the Marquis.

"She is very beautiful," said Jack.

"Why the devil she should have married George, I can't think. She doesn't care for him the least."

"Don't you think she does?"

"I'm sure she don't. I suppose her pestilent father thought it was the nearest way to a coronet.
I don't know why men should marry at all. They always get into trouble by it."

"Somebody must have children," suggested Jack.

"I don't see the necessity. It's nothing to me what comes of the property after I'm gone. What
is it, Madam?" They were sitting out on the lawn after lunch and Jack and the Marquis were
both smoking. As they were talking the Baroness had come up to them and made her little proposition.
"What! a lecture! If Mr. De Baron pleases, of course. I never listen to lectures myself,--except
from my wife."

"Ah! dat is vat I vant to prevent."

"I have prevented it already by sending her to Italy. Oh, rights of women! Very interesting;
but I don't think I'm well enough myself. Here is Captain De Baron, a young man as strong as
a horse, and very fond of women. He'll sit it out."

"I beg your pardon; what is it?" Then the Baroness, with rapid words, told her own sad story.
She had been deluded, defrauded, and ruined by those wicked females, Lady Selina Protest and
Dr. Fleabody. The Marquis was a nobleman whom all England, nay, all Europe, delighted to honour.
Could not the Marquis do something for her? She was rapid and eloquent, but not always intelligible.
"What is it she wants?" asked the Marquis, turning to Jack.

"Pecuniary assistance, I think, my Lord."

"Yah, yah. I have been bamboozled of everything, my Lord Marquis."

"Oh, my G--, De Baron shouldn't have let me in for this. Would you mind telling my fellow to
give her a ten-pound note?" Jack said that he would not mind; and the Baroness stuck to him
pertinaciously, not leaving his side a moment till she had got the money. Of course there was
no lecture. The Baroness was made to understand that visitors at a country house in England
could not be made to endure such an infliction; but she succeeded in levying a contribution
from Mrs. Montacute Jones, and there were rumours afloat that she got a sovereign out of Mr.
Houghton.

Lord Giblet had come with the intention of staying a week, but, the day after the attack made
upon him by Mrs. Montacute Jones, news arrived which made it absolutely necessary that he should
go to Castle Gossling at once. "We shall be so sorry to miss you," said Mrs. Montacute Jones,
whom he tried to avoid in making his general adieux, but who was a great deal too clever not
to catch him.

"My father wants to see me about the property, you know."

"Of course. There must be a great deal to do between you." Everybody who knew the affairs of
the family was aware that the old Earl never thought of consulting his son; and Mrs. Montacute
Jones knew everything.

"Ever so much; therefore I must be off at once. My fellow is packing my things now; and there
is a train in an hour's time."

"Did you hear from Olivia this morning?"

"Not to-day."

"I hope you are as proud as you ought to be of having such a sweet girl belonging to you."
Nasty old woman! What right had she to say these things? "I told Mrs. Green that you were here,
and that you were coming to meet Olivia on the 27th."

"What did she say?"

"She thinks you ought to see Mr. Green as you go through London. He is the easiest, most good-natured
man in the world. Don't you think you might as well speak to him?" Who was Mrs. Montacute Jones
that she should talk to him in this way? "I would send a telegram if I were you, to say I would
be there to-night."

"Perhaps it would be best," said Lord Giblet.

"Oh, certainly. Now mind, we expect you to dinner on the 27th. Is there anybody else you'd
specially like me to ask?"

"Nobody in particular, thank ye."

"Isn't Jack De Baron a friend of yours?"

"Yes,--I like Jack pretty well. He thinks a great deal of himself, you know."

