Ever since the birth of the human race there have been health and disease. Everywhere we find
those who live at levels of comprehension that cannot express in flesh the perfect power of
the word and these must by natural law take on the form of whatever they have power to comprehend.

Health is man's immortal birthright; it is eternal in the universal plan, and it can be made
to become eternal in the life of men in just the hour they understand the laws of their own being.

There are two expressions of energy in the universe; one is called the constructive, the other
the destructive; the one builds up, the other tears down. This must forever be so, for only
as matter is destroyed and passed back into energy can the energy pass out again into finer forms.

Living in these great universal currents of construction and destruction, man relates himself
constantly with one or both through the simple law of his own consciousness, and only as he
learns the laws of his own being and consciously places himself in a position of power can
he ever hope to escape the results which the negative, destructive currents produce in his
body and his environment.

Today we know that the world in which we live is nothing but a great sea of energy which, in
the undifferentiated, is called God, and in the differentiated is called matter or form, or,
to make it more simple, we can call one the energy that creates, and the other the things created
from and by this energy.

Man and his environment are created by this energy: He is a localized center of force and he
becomes the expression in form of just whatever he relates with under the law of cosmic correspondence.

We have found that this great energy is also intelligence and is nothing but mind with its
various manifestations. We know today that the atoms of the atmosphere are intelligence, and
as they touch one another throughout space, it is through this atomic mind that messages are
carried, and currents are generated which can heal patients at a distance.

Everything in the universe is in a state of intelligent association, and when the atoms become
expressed in human form, they pass into that expression of the universal mind known as human
consciousness.

All human life is simply different tastes of consciousness brought about by the different vibratory
rates to which our atoms respond.

The physical body is composed of a group of atoms attuned to move at a certain vibratory rate,
and within this physical body is another body of finer atoms attuned to a still higher vibration
and in relationship with the higher electrical currents of the universe. There has not been
much told about this finer body, but it is time the sick world knows this law of being, for
then it will be in a position to control its own life. This finer body is the "thought body"
or psychic body and it is upon this that the physical body depends for its power, just as the
very best instrument in the world depends upon the player for its expressed melody.

All sight, all hearing, all function is in this psychic body, not in the physical one. What
many of the psychologists call the subconscious mind is only the registered intelligence of
the psychic self. This psychic self is in direct communication with the cosmic self and with
the physical self, and it is through this we become cosmic in our human consciousness.

The psychic body manifests through idea centers of the human brain and it is directly related
with the cosmic currents through the solar plexus of the physical body. The higher concept
centers of the mind are the switchboard where connections are made, and it is in this way that
the psychic body registers its vibrations in the physical, and the physical registers in the
psychic--there is a circle of consciousness established by the two minds. 

Used chiefly for bathing purposes. It is a tonic or chalybeate, and, as this goes to press, is
being retubed. The proprietor, Mr. Lewis Putnam, is the oldest native resident of Saratoga.

THE RED SPRING.

This spring is located on Spring avenue, a short distance beyond the Empire, at the junction of
Geneva and Warren streets. Red Spring Co., proprietors.

History.

It was discovered soon after the Revolutionary war, by a Mr. Norton,
who had been driven from the place from fear of hostile Indians during
the war, and who returned about the year 1784 to re-occupy and improve
some buildings erected by him for the accommodation of a few invalids
who came to visit the High Rock, Flat Rock, President and Red Springs.

No other springs were known at that time, or for many years after. Nearly a hundred years ago the first
bath-house ever built at Saratoga was erected at the Red Spring, and was used for the cure of all
kinds of eruptive and skin diseases for many years. Through the neglect of the owners, this spring,
with others near, was allowed to fall into an impure condition; the tubes rotted out, and for a number
of years the water of the Red Spring was only used for washing sore
eyes, bad ulcers, and the cure of salt rheum, etc. The springs of
Ballston, and the valuable qualities of Congress water, drew public
attention away from these springs, and it was only a few years since
that the present owners of the spring retubed and secured this valuable
water for public use.

The reputation it had long sustained as a powerful alterative for the cure of blood diseases
was confirmed; and for several years this water has been used with growing confidence and wonderful
results.

Properties.

In a general sense its therapeutic effects are alterative, and it
possesses a particular adaptation to inflamed mucous surfaces; scrofula
in all its forms, dyspepsia in its worst conditions, and kidney difficulties,
with every kind of skin disease, including salt rheum, which it never
fails to cure, are prominent among the diseases cured by the use of
this water. This is done simply and surely by
teaching everyone the correct use of the idea centers of the human brain and through this he
is taught to form such thoughts and produce such ideas as will allow a normal amount of energy
to register on both planes, and not permit the psychical mind to drive the human engine on
to destruction in a wild waste and explosion of physical, mental or psychical energy.

This is not a long or wearisome task for in the cortex of every brain there are distinct idea
centers whose business it is to take up ideas built from thoughts, and will must follow the
idea, and by constantly selecting the thoughts which will produce harmonious vibrations within
the psychic and physical selves, we join with the great creative energy of the universe and
it flows through us, healing and harmonizing every atom of our body.

The very first step toward healing is to teach the patient to build for himself a health consciousness,
and this is done by giving him the positive ideas of health instead of the negative ones of
disease. We build for him the idea of health, hold it firmly in our minds, and project it into
his idea centers until it registers in his psychic mind; then this is followed by his own increased
power of willing, and finally this passes into action and is registered in form.

Ideation, willing and doing is the great health trinity, and when this is produced, healing
must follow. This is the law and there is no appeal from it.

When we first meet a diseased person we find his field of consciousness full of all kinds of
negative thoughts of disease, worry, fear and anxiety--these have been persisted in so long
that they have weakened both the idea centers and the power of willing. We at once create for
him the positive idea motor-form, and if his conscious mind is too weak to receive the impulse,
we project it into his psychic mind, helping him hold on to the new idea until his own mind
is able to grasp it, and it becomes registered for him.

After he has learned the truth of the abundance of health energy within and without to be aroused
into action by the simple law of his own thoughts and feelings, he sets to work to regenerate
himself, and he finds that he can really breathe the breath of life into his own nostrils.

After we have seen the scientific side of the real power of healing, then if we want to get
health and keep it, we set about studying how to live our life so as to be able to generate
thoughts and feelings, at all times, which shall always move us at a creative health vibration. The
water of this spring has a general resemblance to that of the Congress. In the cathartic effects
of the two waters the difference is scarcely appreciable, although from the presence of a larger
quantity of magnesia in the Congress, its operation is perhaps somewhat more pungent. The Empire
is highly esteemed for the treatment of obscure and chronic diseases requiring alterative
and diuretic remedies. It is also recommended as a preventive or remedy for the diseases natural
to warm climates, especially intermittent, gastric and bilious fevers, dysenteries and disorders
of the liver. The directions for using are the same as for the Congress.

EUREKA MINERAL SPRING

Is situated on Lake avenue, and on Spring avenue, about a mile east of Broadway, and a few rods
beyond the Excelsior Spring. Eureka Spring Company, proprietors. A.R. Dyett, Esq., President.

The location of the spring is in the midst of very romantic and picturesque scenery, embracing
a beautiful park of some twenty-five acres. Since the water was analyzed the fountain has been retubed,
and its quality improved. It is serviceable in dyspepsia and all diseases and affections of the
liver and kidneys, and is classed among saline and cathartic waters.

It resembles in taste and appearance the other Saratoga waters. The New York office of the
Eureka Spring Company, for the sale of their bottled water, is at No. 7 Hudson R.R.R. Depot, Varick
street. Mr Benj. J. Levy is the agent.

Within a few steps of the Eureka, and belonging to the same company,
is the White Sulphur Spring and bathing-house.

The water of the White Sulphur Spring is an hepatic water of an excellent character, possessing,
as the company claim every essential element to render it equal for internal use to the best
White Sulphur waters in this State, and far superior to most of them. The company have erected
a commodious bath-house, containing fifty bath-rooms, with every
convenience for warm and cold baths, at a moderate price.

Frequent omnibuses convey passengers to and from these springs for 25 cents, passing the principal
hotels.

THE EXCELSIOR SPRING

Is found in a beautiful valley, and amid most romantic scenery, about a mile east of the town hall.
The principal entrance to this spring is on Lake avenue, about half a mile east of Circular
street.

Another route is via Spring avenue, by which we pass a majority of the other springs, and
also the Loughberry water-works which supply the village of Saratoga Springs with water from the
Excelsior Lake by the celebrated Holly system. Just before us, as we reach a point where the
avenue turns towards the Excelsior, is the fine summer hotel known
as the Mansion House, and the pretty cottage residence of Mr. Henry
Lawrence.

History.

The Excelsior Spring has been appreciated for its valuable
qualities by some of the oldest visitors of Saratoga for more than
half a century. The water, however, was not generally known to the
public until in 1859, when Mr. H.H. Lawrence, the former owner, and
father of the present proprietors, retubed the spring at a considerable
expense, having excavated it to a depth of fifty-six feet, eleven
of which are in the solid rock. By this improvement the water flows
with all its properties undeteriorated, retaining from source to outlet
its original purity and strength. Since then, the present proprietors,
under the firm of A.R. Lawrence & Co., by a new and improved method
of bottling and barreling the Excelsior water under its own hydrostatic
pressure, have given it an increased reputation and it is rapidly
attaining a wide-spread popularity.

Properties.

The water of this
spring is a pleasant cathartic, and has also alterative and tonic
properties, and is moreover a very delightful beverage.

The mortal body as we know it in the old thought world, is a thing of earth and lives and suffers
earth's calamities, but through the understanding of this New Thought union it can be made
to become a portion of the cause as indestructible as life itself, and live and glory in omnipotence.

We are then in the resurrection of the life, and the word that was with God and was God, is
made flesh to dwell among us in glory and full of grace and truth; then we know what Jesus
meant when he said, "I tell you of a truth, there be those standing among you who shall not
taste of death till they see the Kingdom of God." He is not here!"

When we read the Bible with its story of human lives and their great, wonderful mysteries,
we find among them, the greatest of all--the marvellous one of the Christ birth and death,
and as we read we are amazed at the many confusing ideas of Jesus and His teachings. His disciples
themselves did not understand Him, though He sought always to clearly interpret Himself; often
when He spoke metaphysically they interpreted Him physically.

There was throughout all the Christ history something so great, so holy, so inclusive that
it was too large for them to comprehend, and for all eternal ages, the developing minds of
men will be the same. They will keep busy with their attempts at explanation of His life and
His words.

Jesus quitted the world in benediction, and He left to those who followed Him and His precepts,
a great inextinguishable hope.

It matters little to those who really understand Truth, whether Jesus the Christ lived, or
whether He was only a symbol worked out by the imagination of men and priests; be the origin
what it may, Christianity still stands; and Religion still holds sway after centuries of ridicule
and generations of secular and scientific analysis. Something unknown and uninterpreted beats
and surges in the hearts of men, and brings into expression in every age the clinging to a
great mysterious, wonderful, unseen agency that somehow works its way along the silent avenues
of the human soul.

The man Jesus may or may not have lived. Humanity may keep its birthright of contradiction
forever on this point, but higher than the limited understanding of the few there lives the
Truth of the great Christ spirit which the name Jesus embodied, and which for centuries gone,
and centuries to be, will wax strong and flourish in the consciousness of men, as they pass
one by one into recognition of it.

Great and sacred was the day of Jesus' birth, and great and sacred was the day of his death,
for both revealed the stages of our human selfhood, and both point our minds to deeper meanings
of existence.

Jesus' life as we follow it from the manger to the cross was the unmistakable story of the
pathway of every human life and each little action was a part of the great mosaic which each
life is setting for itself, and from which it shall one day read its own great AT-ONE-MENT.

The birth of the Christ consciousness comes to each soul as the dawn of self-awakening. It
is the first faint glimmer of a new world, and the first hint the soul of man has of union
with its source.

This first dawn of consciousness is purely a possession of the inner self, and those who feel
it only follow first by faith. This faith is buffeted and attacked by the things of life until
it is tried and becomes steadfast.

In this first dawn of consciousness of the Christ self we are always strangers to ourselves
and asleep in the manger of natural things and natural senses. We go on for years, and as consciousness
grows stronger we search and search for we know not what; craving pursues us, we go hither
and thither seeking, seeking--finding and losing.

The world and the things tangible are never wholly satisfactory in themselves; we know instinctively
that they are not all there is, there is a deep, vital something in us that speaks its hidden
messages into our being, and we are driven on from sensation to sensation, crying for that
open sesame of union which will bring peace to our soul.

Then passing into deeper unfoldment we come into the real work of life, we meet with responsibilities
and its experiences; we are baffled again, buffeted, besieged by the perplexities of doubt
and fear and human discontent and we feel that, strive as we will, we are not yet at home.

The ten thousand things of the human life entangle us,--the touch of sickness, the expressions
of so-called sin,--the baffling consequences of our seeming mistakes,--all these draw us from
the cradle of unconsciousness out into the vital power of a self-conscious life, and push us
onward to our union with Cosmic Consciousness, or the risen Christ.

On the self-conscious plane life goes on, driven on every side by human experiences and at
last turns back upon itself, and then in the Gethsemane of its own making, it stands where
earth and its perplexing joys are lost and heaven and its hidden joys are yet unknown, and
then facing the expressions of its now half-revealed consciousness it cries out from the depth
of its soul's despair, "If it is possible, let this cup pass," and it does not see the purpose
in Gethsemane.

Human life at this stage of unfoldment has fixed laws, and the soul meets in them the inexorable
command to pass on to its own crucifixion, the worked out sentence of its own judgments, and
it goes onward bearing its own cross which is built from the consequences of the laws with
which it has related.

The laws of human self-consciousness are hard to work out; each life faces sometime, somewhere
the proof of itself. There comes a day to all when anything that is less than the truth slips
off, and the soul stands bare at the bar of the universal justice ready to be judged by the
laws which it has made for itself.

There are hours of human crucifixion that it were well to die on, for the soul that wanders
back from these fierce Mounts of Transfiguration has paid the price of human transgression
of law by human pain, and is purged and cleaned by the fierce fire of its own igniting.

The path of human living out leads every life up the steps of Calvary carrying its own Cross
and it plaits the thorns and pierces the side of "Him who in our life again is spit upon and
crucified" until, at last, the great human God-self within us is released through transmutation,
and the grave clothes of our dead self no longer entomb us; then the resurrection day is at
hand, and the Consciousness of God bursts into the self-conscious mind, and the stone is rolled
away from the sepulchre. 

Temple Grove Seminary

Is beautifully situated in a grove in the eastern part of the village, on what was formerly called
Temple Hill.

Rev. Chas. F. Dowd, A.M., a graduate of Yale College, is the principal.

The

regular graduating course occupies a period of four years, and embraces many of the studies
pursued in our colleges for young men, while every facility is afforded for the more modern
and artistic accomplishments.

The endowment is found in the fact that during the long summer vacation the building is opened
as a summer resort.

The Climate

Of Saratoga is remarkably pleasant and salubrious. Mountain bulwarks protect it from wind and
tempest. We doubt if there is any place in the world which can offer more attractions to the
invalid. Those who visit Saratoga in the pursuit of health, will find a very pleasant home
among cultivated people at the Institute of Drs. STRONG, on Circular
street.

We take pleasure in speaking of this house because it is unique in its character, and is one of
the features of Saratoga. A guide book is not the place to discuss systems of medicine. Suffice
it to say that the doctors, while regularly educated physicians,
make use also of the varied resources of hydropathy, and of a wider
range of remedial appliances than can be found in any similar institution
on the globe.

It is worth the while of every tourist in Saratoga to visit the elegant
Institute, and examine its Vacuum Cure and Movement Cure, and its
superb bath-rooms and enjoy the luxury of a Turkish or Russian bath.

The doctors are very courteous, and visitors will find a pleasant reception.

The Institute is open throughout the year. As a summer home for people in health, it fully meets
the wants of those desiring first class accommodations. There is no appearance of invalidism
about the house, and its remedial character in no respect diminishes
its attractions.

Its table is superior, and its patrons are the religious aristocracy of the land.

The Churches
Are commodious and built with special reference to the visiting population.
They are ministered to by resident pastors of culture and repute,
and their pulpits are filled during the season by distinguished divines
from all sections of the country.

The Methodist Society have the
most elegant and conveniently located edifice. It was dedicated the
present year, and is situated on the north side of Washington street,
just above the Grand Union. It is built of brick with sandstone trimmings,
and cost $116,000. Rev. J.M. King is the pastor. Residence Phila street.

The
Episcopal church is nearly opposite the Methodist, a recent edifice
of stone most pleasing in its architecture. Rev. Dr. Camp is the rector.

The
Presbyterian church is a large brick structure, some little distance
up Broadway, and beyond the new Town Hall. Rev. Mr. Newman, pastor.

The
Baptist church is a brick edifice on Washington street, near the railroad.
Rev. E.A. Wood, pastor.

The Congregational church is directly over
the Post Office, on Phila street.

Every experience, every heartache, every joy, every despair, every pulse-beat is only the text
by which the great child mind of the world is spelling out God.

The Risen Self comes into realization of the great white light of the soul, and it enables
us to see all life in its completeness. Human effort and human endeavor glow with an unexpected
radiance when seen from the table-land of the risen truth.

The human soul then rejoices in its Divine possibilities. Jesus said: "I do always the things
that pleaseth the Father," and the voice from heaven said: "This is my beloved son in whom
I am well pleased."

When we turn to those who ask for proof of the risen Christ-self within us, we have only to
point to them the empty tomb of the old lives which men everywhere leave behind them. If we
desire we can go farther and point them to the production of those in whom this great consciousness
is waking; all human life that is alive with thought and faith and deed, is vibrant with a
great vital spiritual force.

The signs of God Consciousness and the conscious union of God and men is rampant everywhere
in the natural world. Every factory, every steamship, every invention, every composition, everything
in form sets its seal upon the genuineness of the existence of the spiritual exaltation of
the minds of men, and higher than the things of the natural world, there stands the achievements
of the mental and inspirational souls; the libraries with their tens of thousands of written
pages, the art museums and galleries of precious dreams; all over the world there are hung
on walls and chiselled into glistening marble the story of the glory-gazing of some Christ-illumined
soul. And again sounded forth from thousands of churches each Sabbath morning, there is swelling
out majestic songs sung by myriads of voices now, but sung first in the silence of some dim,
deep soul-dream, in the Christ consciousness of some risen mind. That grand harmony was born
on the table-lands of human illumination, registered on the human brain, and worked out into
tangible form here on earth to bear witness to the home-land of the God-man.

Christ consciousness is the final destiny of every soul; it is what we really live by and today
we know, as never before, that in order to advance and grow, we must consecrate and bring it
here and now, into its fullest expression in our life.

There are bound to be born, at first, many things on this table-land of new understanding that
will be worked out indifferently by our limited brain, and when challenged by the strain and
stress of life they will depart because they will be unable in their present form to answer
to the great world's need. But increasing consciousness makes everything more powerful, and
as we go on we learn to build sublime and lasting things, to stand the test of time because
they have their root, not in the old thought self, but in the unfolded risen self, and they
are grappled to the heart of the very Rock of Ages.

Standing, then, risen from the dust world of our old defeats, our human minds receive new illuminations
and rejoice in them. Law becomes the essence of our daily living and the mind of man the direct
inspiration of the Almighty. We dare to trust our risen mind to the uttermost for in it is
GOD himself enshrined.

In this new spiritual perception we rely more and more on our intuitions, illumination and
revelation, for it is human Godness, backed by the strength of unnumbered hosts of higher consciousness.

We know at last that all our daily living is not a matter of outward signs but of inward sight;
all external things may contradict us, yet in sublime confidence we shape our way while the
Christ voice within us speaks forth its messages, telling us all the holy and uplifting stories
of our daily life.  Over the trials and wreckage of our common years we follow it; out from
a silence that is known only to ourselves we bring the lessons that have burnt their truth
into our souls.

In the power of this risen self we stand with our faces upturned, with our whole life opened
to God, and human effort, human growth, human hope, love, joy,--all are joined in the sense
of Divine resurrection.

This is the consciousness of God in the human soul; this is the Resurrection morning and it
makes us NOW the Sons of God, and from the darkness of our Old Thought growth we lift our hearts
away into a new Life Divine. We open our eyes in the radiance of a light that never grows dim,
then standing with an all-seeing soul vision, we can point to the long years behind us through
which we have worked out our soul's salvation and closing the door on the empty tomb of our
dead self we say with all the serenity of our new-found God-consciousness:

"I know whom you seek. He is not here. He is Risen!"

Transcendentalism

Transcendentalism is today the one subject which is demanding the greatest attention. The race
mind is beginning to think in words of transcendental language rather than in the old law of
science and philosophy, and all the light of modern investigation centres round the one who
declares himself a transcendentalist.

We may say that a man is a scientist, a philosopher or a materialist, and the world will know
at once what we mean, but if we say that he is a transcendentalist we leave an open doorway
for investigation; there is something yet to be learned about him, something that no one knows
about but himself.

Anyone can easily define a scientist, a philosopher and a psychologist, but they halt in more
or less indecision when they are asked to define a transcendentalist, and it is only when we
understand that a transcendentalist is one who has extended his normal consciousness into relationship
with the deeper laws of the universe, so that he uses naturally these laws and is perfectly
familiar and at home in states of consciousness which the rest of the world call supernatural,
and with which they are entirely unfamiliar, that we can come to a true definition of the transcendentalist.

Transcendentalism has been a part of race unfolding since time began, and will continue to
be throughout all race evolution.

In the old civilization we studied the transcendentalist and transcendentalism from an entirely
different view-point than we do today.

Transcendentalism is a state of consciousness and man evolves into it out of the natural states
of his own mind. No one is to blame that he is, or is not, a transcendentalist. Exportation
of the Water.

After a refreshing draught from this sparkling and delicious fountain,
let us not fail to examine the proprietors' peculiar and very perfect
method of bottling and barreling the Excelsior water by its own hydrostatic
pressure.

Since last season a handsome brick bottling-house has replaced the ancient wooden structure.
Entering this bottling-house we find our way to a capacious and well-lighted
cellar, in which we discover a perpendicular opening some ten feet
in diameter; this proves to be a circular brick vault, in whose depths
the process of filling is performed.

Twelve feet below the surface of the spring a block tin tube conveys the water into reservoirs
placed at the bottom of this vault.


Studying life in the light of our modern understanding, we find that man passes by natural
law through the objective, the surface zone, then on to the subjective or inner zone, and then
to a centralized position between both zones where he lives, moves and has being in both zones,
uniting the laws of the two kingdoms into a new zone of consciousness, then using the laws
of both, he passes at will to the very edge of matter, and back to the very center of the cosmic
mind; standing here in life's master position, he is lord of both zones. About a mile north of
Congress Hall the half-mile track and handsome grounds of Glen Mitchel are located. The Saratoga
County Agricultural Society have their buildings here. The track
is open to all who wish, both pedestrians and carriages.
It has been written--

  "For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to
   destruction, and many there be who go in thereat" because

  "Straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto
   Life."

We know today that this is true, for on the broad path of the objective life man must pass
through the law of change which destroys, that it may create again and through which he is
crowded on to seek the narrow path of subjective senses which are built on the law of verities.

Man's first lessons are in the objective zone of mind, and he remains positive in this zone
until he masters its laws and the lessons which they bring. 

The proprietors, Messrs. Vail and Seavy, determined to bore for a spring. They were successful,
and when they had reached a point 140 feet below the surface rock, they struck the mineral
vein. The water immediately burst forth with vehemence, and the marvelous phenomenon of a spouting
spring was established.

The orifice bored in the rock is five and a half inches in diameter
and 140 feet deep. The tubing is a block tin pipe, encased with iron,
eighty-five feet in length and two inches in diameter.

