So it is disinterestedness, the saint's and poet's love of things for their own sakes, the
vision of the charitable heart, which is the secret of union with Reality and the condition
of all real knowledge. This brings with it the precious quality of suppleness, the power of
responding with ease and simplicity to the great rhythms of life; and this will only come when
the ungainly "lump" of sin is broken, and the verb "to have," which expresses its reaction
to existence, is ejected from the centre of your consciousness. Then your attitude to life
will cease to be commercial, and become artistic. Then the guardian at the gate, scrutinising
and sorting the incoming impressions, will no longer ask, "What use is this to me?" before
admitting the angel of beauty or significance who demands your hospitality. Then things will
cease to have power over you. You will become free. "Son," says a Kempis, "thou oughtest diligently
to attend to this; that in every place, every action or outward occupation, thou be inwardly
free and mighty in thyself, and all things be under thee, and thou not under them; that thou
be lord and governor of thy deeds, not servant." It is therefore by the withdrawal of your
will from its feverish attachment to things, till "they are under thee and thou not under them,"
that you will gradually resolve the opposition between the recollective and the active sides
of your personality. By diligent self-discipline, that mental attitude which the mystics sometimes
call poverty and sometimes perfect freedom--for these are two aspects of one thing--will become
possible to you. Ascending the mountain of self-knowledge and throwing aside your superfluous
luggage as you go, you shall at last arrive at the point which they call the summit of the
spirit; where the various forces of your character--brute energy, keen intellect, desirous
heart--long dissipated amongst a thousand little wants and preferences, are gathered into one,
and become a strong and disciplined instrument wherewith your true self can force a path deeper
and deeper into the heart of Reality.

CHAPTER VI

LOVE AND WILL

This steady effort towards the simplifying of your tangled character, its gradual emancipation
from the fetters of the unreal, is not to dispense you from that other special training of
the attention which the diligent practice of meditation and recollection effects. Your pursuit
of the one must never involve neglect of the other; for these are the two sides--one moral,
the other mental--of that unique process of self-conquest which Ruysbroeck calls "the gathering
of the forces of the soul into the unity of the spirit": the welding together of all your powers,
the focussing of them upon one point. Hence they should never, either in theory or practice,
be separated. Only the act of recollection, the constantly renewed retreat to the quiet centre
of the spirit, gives that assurance of a Reality, a calmer and more valid life attainable by
us, which supports the stress and pain of self-simplification and permits us to hope on, even
in the teeth of the world's cruelty, indifference, degeneracy; whilst diligent character-building
alone, with its perpetual untiring efforts at self-adjustment, its bracing, purging discipline,
checks the human tendency to relapse into and react to the obvious, and makes possible the
further development of the contemplative power.

So it is through and by these two great changes in your attitude towards things--first, the
change of attention, which enables you to perceive a truer universe; next, the deliberate rearrangement
of your ideas, energies, and desires in harmony with that which you have seen--that a progressive
uniformity of life and experience is secured to you, and you are defended against the dangers
of an indolent and useless mysticality. Only the real, say the mystics, can know Reality, for
"we behold that which we are," the universe which we see is conditioned by the character of
the mind that sees it: and this realness--since that which you seek is no mere glimpse of Eternal
Life, but complete possession of it-- must apply to every aspect of your being, the rich totality
of character, all the "forces of the soul," not to some thin and isolated "spiritual sense"
alone. This is why recollection and self-simplification--perception of, and adaptation to,
the Spiritual World in which we dwell--are the essential preparations for the mystical life,
and neither can exist in a wholesome and well-balanced form without the other. By them the
mind, the will, the heart, which so long had dissipated their energies over a thousand scattered
notions, wants, and loves, are gradually detached from their old exclusive preoccupation with
the ephemeral interests of the self, or of the group to which the self belongs.

You, if you practise them, will find after a time--perhaps a long time--that the hard work
which they involve has indeed brought about a profound and definite change in you. A new suppleness
has taken the place of that rigidity which you have been accustomed to mistake for strength
of character: an easier attitude towards the accidents of life. Your whole scale of values
has undergone a silent transformation, since you have ceased to fight for your own hand and
regard the nearest-at-hand world as the only one that counts. You have become, as the mystics
would say, "free from inordinate attachments," the "heat of having" does not scorch you any
more; and because of this you possess great inward liberty, a sense of spaciousness and peace.
Released from the obsessions which so long had governed them, will, heart, and mind are now
all bent to the purposes of your deepest being: "gathered in the unity of the spirit," they
have fused to become an agent with which it can act.

What form, then, shall this action take? It shall take a practical form, shall express itself
in terms of movement: the pressing outwards of the whole personality, the eager and trustful
stretching of it towards the fresh universe which awaits you. As all scattered thinking was
cut off in recollection, as all vagrant and unworthy desires have been killed by the exercises
of detachment; so now all scattered willing, all hesitations between the indrawing and outflowing
instincts of the soul, shall be checked and resolved. You are to push with all your power:
not to absorb ideas, but to pour forth will and love. With this "conative act," as the psychologists
would call it, the true contemplative life begins. Contemplation, you see, has no very close
connection with dreaminess and idle musing: it is more like the intense effort of vision, the
passionate and self-forgetful act of communion, presupposed in all creative art. It is, says
one old English mystic, "a blind intent stretching . . . a privy love pressed" in the direction
of Ultimate Beauty, athwart all the checks, hindrances, and contradictions of the restless
world: a "loving stretching out" towards Reality, says the great Ruysbroeck, than whom none
has gone further on this path. Tension, ardour, are of its essence: it demands the perpetual
exercise of industry and courage.

We observe in such definitions as these a strange neglect of that glory of man, the Pure Intellect,
with which the spiritual prig enjoys to believe that he can climb up to the Empyrean itself.
It almost seems as though the mystics shared Keats' view of the supremacy of feeling over thought;
and reached out towards some new and higher range of sensation, rather than towards new and
more accurate ideas. They are ever eager to assure us that man's most sublime thoughts of the
Transcendent are but a little better than his worst: that loving intuition is the only certain
guide. "By love may He be gotten and holden, but by thought never."

Yet here you are not to fall into the clumsy error of supposing that the things which are beyond
the grasp of reason are necessarily unreasonable things. Immediate feeling, so far as it is
true, does not oppose but transcends and completes the highest results of thought. It contains
within itself the sum of all the processes through which thought would pass in the act of attaining
the same goal: supposing thought to have reached--as it has not--the high pitch at which it
was capable of thinking its way all along this road.

In the preliminary act of gathering yourself together, and in those unremitting explorations
through which you came to "a knowing and a feeling of yourself as you are," thought assuredly
had its place. There the powers of analysis, criticism, and deduction found work that they
could do. But now it is the love and will-- the feeling, the intent, the passionate desire--of
the self, which shall govern your activities and make possible your success. Few would care
to brave the horrors of a courtship conducted upon strictly intellectual lines: and contemplation
is an act of love, the wooing, not the critical study, of Divine Reality. It is an eager outpouring
of ourselves towards a Somewhat Other for which we feel a passion of desire; a seeking, touching,
and tasting, not a considering and analysing, of the beautiful and true wherever found. It
is, as it were, a responsive act of the organism to those Supernal Powers without, which touch
and stir it. Deep humility as towards those Powers, a willing surrender to their control, is
the first condition of success. The mystics speak much of these elusive contacts; felt more
and more in the soul, as it becomes increasingly sensitive to the subtle movements of its spiritual
environment.

    "Sense, feeling, taste, complacency, and sight,
        These are the true and real joys,
    The living, flowing, inward, melting, bright
        And heavenly pleasures; all the rest are toys;
            All which are founded in Desire
            As light in flame and heat in fire."

But this new method of correspondence with the universe is not to be identified with "mere
feeling" in its lowest and least orderly forms. Contemplation does not mean abject surrender
to every "mystical" impression that comes in. It is no sentimental aestheticism or emotional
piety to which you are being invited: nor shall the transcending of reason ever be achieved
by way of spiritual silliness. All the powers of the self, raised to their in tensest form,
shall be used in it; though used perhaps in a new way. These, the three great faculties of
love, thought, and will-- with which you have been accustomed to make great show on the periphery
of consciousness--you have, as it were, drawn inwards during the course of your inward retreat:
and by your education in detachment have cured them of their tendency to fritter their powers
amongst a multiplicity of objects. Now, at the very heart of personality, you are alone with
them; you hold with you in that "Interior Castle," and undistracted for the moment by the demands
of practical existence, the three great tools wherewith the soul deals with life.

As regards the life you have hitherto looked upon as "normal," love--understood in its widest
sense, as desire, emotional inclination--has throughout directed your activities. You did things,
sought things, learned things, even suffered things, because at bottom you wanted to. Will
has done the work to which love spurred it: thought has assimilated the results of their activities
and made for them pictures, analyses, "explanations" of the world with which they had to deal.
But now your purified love discerns and desires, your will is set towards, something which
thought cannot really assimilate--still less explain. "Contemplation," says Ruysbroeck, "is
a knowing that is in no wise . . . therein all the workings of the reason fail." That reason
has been trained to deal with the stuff of temporal existence. It will only make mincemeat
of your experience of Eternity if you give it a chance; trimming, transforming, rationalising
that ineffable vision, trying to force it into a symbolic system with which the intellect can
cope. "Love, and do what you like," said the wise Augustine: so little does mere surface activity
count, against the deep motive that begets it.

The dynamic power of love and will, the fact that the heart's desire--if it be intense and
industrious--is a better earnest of possible fulfilment than the most elegant theories of the
spiritual world; this is the perpetual theme of all the Christian mystics. By such love, they
think, the worlds themselves were made. By an eager outstretching towards Reality, they tell
us, we tend to move towards Reality, to enter into its rhythm: by a humble and unquestioning
surrender to it we permit its entrance into our souls. This twofold act, in which we find the
double character of all true love--which both gives and takes, yields and demands--is assured,
if we be patient and single-hearted, of ultimate success. At last our ignorance shall be done
away; and we shall "apprehend" the real and the eternal, as we apprehend the sunshine when
the sky is free from cloud. Therefore "Smite upon that thick cloud of unknowing with a sharp
dart of longing love"-- and suddenly it shall part, and disclose the blue.

"Smite," "press," "push," "strive"--these are strong words: yet they are constantly upon the
lips of the contemplatives when describing the earlier stages of their art. Clearly, the abolition
of discursive thought is not to absolve you from the obligations of industry. You are to "energise
enthusiastically" upon new planes, where you shall see more intensely, hear more intensely,
touch and taste more intensely than ever before: for the modes of communion which these senses
make possible to you are now to operate as parts of the one single state of perfect intuition,
of loving knowledge by union, to which you are growing up. And gradually you come to see that,
if this be so, it is the ardent will that shall be the prime agent of your undertaking: a will
which has now become the active expression of your deepest and purest desires. About this the
recollected and simplified self is to gather itself as a centre; and thence to look out--steadily,
deliberately-- with eyes of love towards the world.

To "look with the eyes of love" seems a vague and sentimental recommendation: yet the whole
art of spiritual communion is summed in it, and exact and important results flow from this
exercise. The attitude which it involves is an attitude of complete humility and of receptiveness;
without criticism, without clever analysis of the thing seen. When you look thus, you surrender
your I-hood; see things at last as the artist does, for their sake, not for your own. The fundamental
unity that is in you reaches out to the unity that is in them: and you achieve the "Simple
Vision" of the poet and the mystic--that synthetic and undistorted apprehension of things which
is the antithesis of the single vision of practical men. The doors of perception are cleansed,
and everything appears as it is. The disfiguring results of hate, rivalry, prejudice, vanish
away. Into that silent place to which recollection has brought you, new music, new colour,
new light, are poured from the outward world. The conscious love which achieves this vision
may, indeed must, fluctuate--"As long as thou livest thou art subject to mutability; yea, though
thou wilt not!" But the will which that love has enkindled can hold attention in the right
direction. It can refuse to relapse to unreal and egotistic correspondences; and continue,
even in darkness, and in the suffering which such darkness brings to the awakened spirit, its
appointed task, cutting a way into new levels of Reality.

Therefore this transitional stage in the development of the contemplative powers--in one sense
the completion of their elementary schooling, in another the beginning of their true activities--is
concerned with the toughening and further training of that will which self-simplification has
detached from its old concentration upon the unreal wants and interests of the self. Merged
with your intuitive love, this is to become the true agent of your encounter with Reality;
for that Simple Eye of Intention, which is so supremely your own, and in the last resort the
maker of your universe and controller of your destiny, is nothing else but a synthesis of such
energetic will and such uncorrupt desire, turned and held in the direction of the Best. 

(No. 18. p. 282.), that Sir John Poley stuck a golden frog in his
ear from his affection for tadpoles, I think "R.R.'s" "Rowley Poley"
may be dismissed with the "gammon and spinach" of the amorous frog
to which he alludes.

Conceiving that the origin of so singular a badge could hardly fail to be commemorated by some tradition
in the family, I have made inquiry of one of Sir John Poley's descendants, and I regret to
hear from him that "they have no authentic tradition respecting it, but that they have always
believed that it had some connection with the service Sir John rendered in the Low Countries,
where he distinguished himself much by his military achievements." To the Low Countries, then, the
land of frogs, we must turn for the solution of the enigma.

Gastras.

Cambridge, March 9.

John Street.

[Surely then Burke was right, and the "Age of Chivalry is past!"--Otherwise the idea of disarming
a statue would never have entered the head of any Man of Arms, even in his most frolicsome
of moods.]

John Bull.--Vertue MSS.--I always fancied that the familiar name for our countrymen, about the origin
of which "R.F.H." inquires (No. 21. p. 336.), was adopted from Swift's History of John Bull,
first printed in 1712; but I have no authority for saying so.

If the Vertue MSS. alluded to (No. 20. p. 319.) were ever returned by Mr. Steevens to Dr. Rawlinson,
they may be in the Bodleian Library, to which the Doctor left all his collections, including
a large mass of papers purchased by him long after Pepys' death,
as he described it, "Thus et odores vendentibus."

These "Pepys papers,"
as far as I can recollect, were very voluminous, and relating to all
sorts of subjects; but I saw them in 1824, and had only then time
to examine and extract for publication portions of the correspondence.

Braybrooke.

Audley
End, March 25.

Vertue's Manuscripts.--The MS. quoted under this title
by Malone is printed entire, or rather all of it which refers to plays,
by Mr. Peter Cunningham, in the Papers of the Shakspeare Society,
vol. ii. p. 123., from an interleaved copy of Langbaine. Since the
publication of that paper, the entries relating to Shakspeare's plays
have been given from the original MS. in the Bodleian Library, in
Halliwell's Life of Shakspeare, p. 272. By this perpetually-renewed
casting down of the hard barriers of individuality, these willing submissions to the compelling
rhythm of a larger existence than that of the solitary individual or even of the human group--by
this perpetual widening, deepening, and unselfing of your attentiveness--you are to enlarge
your boundaries and become the citizen of a greater, more joyous, more poignant world, the
partaker of a more abundant life. The limits of this enlargement have not yet been discovered.
The greatest contemplatives, returning from their highest ascents, can only tell us of a world
that is "unwalled."

But this growth into higher realities, this blossoming of your contemplative consciousness--though
it be, like all else we know in life, an unbroken process of movement and change--must be broken
up and reduced to the series of concrete forms which we call "order" if our inelastic minds
are to grasp it. So, we will consider it as the successive achievement of those three levels
or manifestations of Reality, which we have agreed to call the Natural World of Becoming, the
Metaphysical World of Being, and--last and highest--that Divine Reality within which these
opposites are found as one. Though these three worlds of experience are so plaited together,
that intimations from the deeper layers of being constantly reach you through the natural scene,
it is in this order of realisation that you may best think of them, and of your own gradual
upgrowth to the full stature of humanity. To elude nature, to refuse her friendship, and attempt
to leap the river of life in the hope of finding God on the other side, is the common error
of a perverted mysticality. It is as fatal in result as the opposite error of deliberately
arrested development, which, being attuned to the wonderful rhythms of natural life, is content
with this increase of sensibility; and, becoming a "nature-mystic," asks no more.

So you are to begin with that first form of contemplation which the old mystics sometimes called
the "discovery of God in His creatures." Not with some ecstatic adventure in supersensuous
regions, but with the loving and patient exploration of the world that lies at your gates;
the "ebb and flow and ever-during power" of which your own existence forms a part. You are
to push back the self's barriers bit by bit, till at last all duration is included in the widening
circles of its intuitive love: till you find in every manifestation of life--even those which
you have petulantly classified as cruel or obscene--the ardent self-expression of that Immanent
Being whose spark burns deep in your own soul.

The Indian mystics speak perpetually of the visible universe as the Lila or Sport of God: the
Infinite deliberately expressing Himself in finite form, the musical manifestation of His creative
joy. All gracious and all courteous souls, they think, will gladly join His play; considering
rather the wonder and achievement of the whole--its vivid movement, its strange and terrible
evocations of beauty from torment, nobility from conflict and death, its mingled splendour
of sacrifice and triumph--than their personal conquests, disappointments, and fatigues. In
the first form of contemplation you are to realise the movement of this game, in which you
have played so long a languid and involuntary part, and find your own place in it. It is flowing,
growing, changing, making perpetual unexpected patterns within the evolving melody of the Divine
Thought. In all things it is incomplete, unstable; and so are you. Your fellow-men, enduring
on the battlefield, living and breeding in the slum, adventurous and studious, sensuous and
pure--more, your great comrades, the hills, the trees, the rivers, the darting birds, the scuttering
insects, the little soft populations of the grass--all these are playing with you. They move
one to another in delicate responsive measures, now violent, now gentle, now in conflict, now
in peace; yet ever weaving the pattern of a ritual dance, and obedient to the music of that
invisible Choragus whom Boehme and Plotinus knew. What is that great wind which blows without,
in continuous and ineffable harmonies? Part of you, practical man. There is but one music in
the world: and to it you contribute perpetually, whether you will or no, your one little ditty
of no tone.

    "Mad with joy, life and death dance to the rhythm of this music:
    The hills and the sea and the earth dance:
    The world of man dances in laughter and tears."

It seems a pity to remain in ignorance of this, to keep as it were a plate-glass window between
yourself and your fellow-dancers-- all those other thoughts of God, perpetually becoming, changing
and growing beside you--and commit yourself to the unsocial attitude of the "cat that walks
by itself."

Begin therefore at once. Gather yourself up, as the exercises of recollection have taught you
to do. Then--with attention no longer frittered amongst the petty accidents and interests of
your personal life, but poised, tense, ready for the work you shall demand of it--stretch out
by a distinct act of loving will towards one of the myriad manifestations of life that surround
you: and which, in an ordinary way, you hardly notice unless you happen to need them. Pour
yourself out towards it, do not draw its image towards you. Epigram by La Monnoye.--It has been ingeniously
said, that "Life is an epigram, of which death is the point." Alas for human nature! good
points are rare; and no wonder, according to this wicked, but witty,
EPIGRAM BY LA MONNOYE. From Alp to insect, anything will do, provided that your attitude be right:
for all things in this world towards which you are stretching out are linked together, and
one truly apprehended will be the gateway to the rest.

Look with the eye of contemplation on the most dissipated tabby of the streets, and you shall
discern the celestial quality of life set like an aureole about his tattered ears, and hear
in his strident mew an echo of

    "The deep enthusiastic joy,
    The rapture of the hallelujah sent
    From all that breathes and is."

The sooty tree up which he scrambles to escape your earnest gaze is holy too. It contains for
you the whole divine cycle of the seasons; upon the plane of quiet, its inward pulse is clearly
to be heard. But you must look at these things as you would look into the eyes of a friend:
ardently, selflessly, without considering his reputation, his practical uses, his anatomical
peculiarities, or the vices which might emerge were he subjected to psycho-analysis.

Such a simple exercise, if entered upon with singleness of heart, will soon repay you. By this
quiet yet tense act of communion, this loving gaze, you will presently discover a relationship--far
more intimate than anything you imagined--between yourself and the surrounding "objects of
sense"; and in those objects of sense a profound significance, a personal quality, and actual
power of response, which you might in cooler moments think absurd. Making good your correspondences
with these fellow-travellers, you will learn to say with Whitman:

    "You air that serves me with breath to speak!
    You objects that call from diffusion my meanings and give them
        shape!
    You light that wraps me and all things in delicate equable showers!
    You paths worn in the irregular hollows by the roadside!
    I believe you are latent with unseen existences, you are so dear
        to me." 

S.L.
Vertue's MSS. (No. 20. p. 319.) were in Horace Walpole's possession,
bought by him, I think, of Vertue's widow; and his Anecdotes of Painting
were chiefly composed from them, as he states, with great modesty,
in his dedication and his preface. Old barriers will vanish: and you will
become aware that St. Francis was accurate as well as charming when he spoke of Brother Wind
and Sister Water; and that Stevenson was obviously right when he said, that since:

    "The world is so full of a number of things,
    I'm sure we ought all to be happy as kings."

Those glad and vivid "things" will speak to you. They will offer you news at least as definite
and credible as that which the paper-boy is hawking in the street: direct messages from that
Beauty which the artist reports at best at second hand. Because of your new sensitiveness,
anthems will be heard of you from every gutter; poems of intolerable loveliness will bud for
you on every weed. Best and greatest, your fellowmen will shine for you with new significance
and light. Humility and awe will be evoked in you by the beautiful and patient figures of the
poor, their long dumb heroisms, their willing acceptance of the burden of life. All the various
members of the human group, the little children and the aged, those who stand for energy, those
dedicated to skill, to thought, to plainest service, or to prayer, will have for you fresh
vivid significance, be felt as part of your own wider being. All adventurous endeavours, all
splendour of pain and all beauty of play--more, that grey unceasing effort of existence which
makes up the groundwork of the social web, and the ineffective hopes, enthusiasms, and loves
which transfuse it--all these will be seen and felt by you at last as full of glory, full of
meaning; for you will see them with innocent, attentive, disinterested eyes, feel them as infinitely
significant and adorable parts of the Transcendent Whole in which you also are immersed.

This discovery of your fraternal link with all living things, this down-sinking of your arrogant
personality into the great generous stream of life, marks an important stage in your apprehension
of that Science of Love which contemplation is to teach. You are not to confuse it with pretty
fancies about nature, such as all imaginative persons enjoy; still less, with a self-conscious
and deliberate humanitarianism. It is a veritable condition of awareness; a direct perception,
not an opinion or an idea. For those who attain it, the span of the senses is extended. These
live in a world which is lit with an intenser light; has, as George Fox insisted, "another
smell than before." They hear all about them the delicate music of growth, and see the "new
colour" of which the mystics speak.

Further, you will observe that this act, and the attitude which is proper to it, differs in
a very important way even from that special attentiveness which characterised the stage of
meditation, and which seems at first sight to resemble it in many respects. Then, it was an
idea or image from amongst the common stock-- one of those conceptual labels with which the
human paste-brush has decorated the surface of the universe--which you were encouraged to hold
before your mind. Now, turning away from the label, you shall surrender yourself to the direct
message poured out towards you by the thing. Then, you considered: now, you are to absorb.
This experience will be, in the very highest sense, the experience of sensation without thought:
the essential sensation, the "savouring" to which some of the mystics invite us, of which our
fragmentary bodily senses offer us a transient sacrament. So here at last, in this intimate
communion, this "simple seeing," this total surrender of you to the impress of things, you
are using to the full the sacred powers of sense: and so using them, because you are concentrating
upon them, accepting their reports in simplicity. You have, in this contemplative outlook,
carried the peculiar methods of artistic apprehension to their highest stage: with the result
that the sense-world has become for you, as Erigena said that all creatures were, "a theophany,
or appearance of God." Not, you observe, a symbol, but a showing: a very different thing. I have
not been able to ascertain when Dayrolles died, but the above may lead to the discovery.

W.H. LAMMIN.

French Maxim.--The French saying quoted by "R.V." is
the 223rd of Les Réflexions morales du Duc de la Rochefoucauld (Pougin,
Paris, 1839). Poets, gazing thus at the "flower
in the crannied wall" or the "green thing that stands in the way," have been led deep into
the heart of its life; there to discern the secret of the universe.

