Very often a slight chill follows labor. It has a nervous origin and need never give uneasiness;
a drink of warm milk, hot-water bags to the feet, and extra blankets will be sure to make the
mother comfortable. On the other hand, excitement of any kind aggravates this condition. In
general, recently delivered patients must be kept quiet no matter how well they feel. A few
hours of sleep, or, at least, of repose, are justified by the fatigue incident to labor, and
nothing should be permitted to interfere with it.

METHODS OF REVIVING THE CHILD.--Complications which interfere with the child's vitality rarely
occur when labor proceeds so rapidly that there is not time to get a doctor. Nevertheless a
description of child-birth would be incomplete without reference to the measures intended to
revive asphyxiated infants.

Such measures aim, first of all, to make the infant breathe for itself, and if breathing does
not begin promptly we resort to artificial respiration. Mucus in the mouth or in the lower
air- passages hinders the entrance of air into the lungs; consequently it is the duty of the
attendant to remove this mucus by means of gauze or some light fabric wrapped about a finger
and passed backward over the tongue. In most cases nothing else will be necessary. But if breathing
is not immediately established, the child should be grasped by the feet with one hand and held
downward while its back is vigorously slapped with the other. Usually, it gasps at once; when
it does not, the attendant may stroke its face and chest with her hand, which has been previously
held in cold water for a moment; or she may dash a handful of cold water upon its body. With
very rare exceptions these procedures make the child cry.

One must always be alert to see the very first attempt at breathing, for unduly prolonged manipulations
may defeat their own object; the natural inclination always is to do too much rather than not
enough. In some instances, however, the measures thus far indicated will not prove successful,
and, if not, the cord must be tied and cut through, for subsequent treatment cannot be conveniently
carried out while the child remains attached to the placenta. As soon as the cord is severed
the child is placed in a tub of warm water, about the normal temperature of the body, and is
moved about in the bath for a few moments, the attendant watching closely all the while, for
the breathing is often very superficial. Should signs of beginning respiration not appear,
the attendant should grasp the child by the shoulders, dip it up to the neck in a basin of
cold water and quickly return it to the warm tub. This operation may be repeated five or six
times; generally the instant the child touches the cold water it draws up its feet, opens its
eyes, and cries. One must take care that the plunge lasts but a moment; if the child becomes
chilled efforts to revive it will likely be unsuccessful. Indeed, the necessity for keeping
it warm must be constantly borne in mind.

With the very exceptional cases in which hot and cold tubs are ineffective, the following method
becomes valuable. Wrap the child in a blanket and lay it face downward upon a table or chair,
allowing the head to hang over the edge. Roll the body on one side or a little beyond; then
slowly roll it back upon its face and onward to the other side. This maneuver is repeated fourteen
times to the minute, but not more frequently. When properly performed it secures a flow of
air to and from the lungs with the same rapidity as in the normal respiration of an infant.
Efforts to revive the child must not be quickly given up, as a successful outcome occasionally
requires half an hour of work or even longer. One method after another should be tried in the
order which I have indicated. A physician always perseveres so long as the heart-sounds can
be heard; but, since an inexperienced person might be unable to decide upon this point, the
most reliable course for the layman is to persist in the resuscitation until the physician arrives.

CHAPTER XI

THE LYING-IN PERIOD

The Changes in the Uterus--The Lochia--The Return of Menstruation-- Other Restorative Changes:
The Loss in Weight; The Abdominal Wall; The Pelvic Floor--The Care of the Patient: The Elimination
of Waste Material; Cleanliness; The Diet; The Environment; The Time for Getting up--The Final
Examination.

A generation ago physicians were accustomed to see their obstetrical patients only at the time
of labor. No preliminary examination was thought necessary, and after the delivery visits were
not made unless the family became alarmed and requested them. When thus asked to come back
the physician sometimes found that an infection had developed; occasionally the breasts were
giving trouble, or some other difficulty in the care of the mother or of the infant was baffling
the nurse. It is now recognized that the medical attendant should not wait for the appearance
of untoward symptoms. Although the strict observance of the various precautions which I have
already emphasized should lead and usually do lead to an uneventful convalescence, it is none
the less true that the danger of infection and of other immediate complication has not passed
until several weeks after delivery. For this reason and also because skillful guidance of the
mother at this time will prevent unwelcome sequels in the later years of life, physicians now
extend their watchfulness beyond the hour of birth. The number of visits ordinarily required
is not large. In each case, to be sure, the circumstances will determine the number; but, as
a rule, ten visits, if properly distributed, will be sufficient. During the month succeeding
delivery these visits should be made in about this order: a daily visit for the first five
days, subsequently one upon the seventh, the tenth, the fourteenth, the twenty-first, and the
twenty-eighth day.

At the conclusion of labor there begins a series of changes which are the reverse of those
incident to pregnancy, and which restore the body to its original condition. Six weeks are
generally required for these alterations. They should leave the mother in perfect health, but
traces of pregnancy are not entirely effaced; even in the absence of outward evidence, if a
woman has ever given birth to a child a thorough internal examination will disclose the fact.

The initial steps in these restorative processes are taken most promptly and effectively when
patients remain in bed. The traditional custom of doing so has given to the first few weeks
following delivery the popular name, "the Lying-in Period." To these weeks physicians usually
apply the technical term puerperium, the child's period, a designation which brings to mind
the secretion of milk which, though not a retrogressive change, is, nevertheless, one of the
most distinctive results of childbirth.

Radical as the bodily changes in progress at this time are, the lying-in period is not a period
of illness. But there is, perhaps, no other time in a woman's life when she may cross the boundary
between sickness and health so easily; for here nature tolerates no trifling. Not infrequently
puerperal patients who are feeling well attempt too much, and suffer a more or less serious
set-back; it is an all- important duty of the obstetrician, therefore, to restrain them from
harmful activity. In my experience patients yield to restraint most readily, and secure the
best results, if I explain to them the anatomical facts which should guide the management of
the lying-in period.

THE CHANGES IN THE UTERUS.--Since of all the organs the uterus undergoes during pregnancy the
most extensive development, it also holds the place of prominence during the lying-in period.
Immediately after delivery the womb weighs two pounds and measures some eight inches in height,
five in breadth, and four in thickness. In the course of a few days it begins to dwindle in
size, gradually sinking in the abdomen until it lies entirely within the pelvic cavity. Toward
the end of five or six weeks it resumes the position occupied before conception, regains approximately
its original dimensions, and weighs two ounces. We speak of the process which leads to these
results as the involution of the uterus. Since a great deal depends upon the rapidity with
which involution progresses, we must understand just what it is and how it may be influenced.

The muscle of the womb, to which this property of involution belongs, is an aggregation of
thousands of individual fibers. In response to excellent nutrition during pregnancy, these
fibers have grown thick and strong, in order that they may furnish the power needed at the
time of labor. When this purpose has been fulfilled each fiber becomes smaller and gradually
passes into a resting stage the better to preserve its vigor. It is the shrivelling of the
individual fibers, therefore, which accounts for the total reduction in the size of the womb.

Although the source of the stimulus which causes the muscle-fibers to atrophy is not so clear
as we should like it, we are acquainted with certain influences to which involution is susceptible.
Of these none merits so much attention as the influence of the breasts. The intimate relation
between the breasts and the uterus manifests itself in such a variety of ways and with such
force that no one doubts its existence. Thus, if a nursing mother becomes pregnant her infant
is usually deprived of sufficient nourishment or suffers some digestive disturbance; if not,
and the mother, ignorant of her condition, continues with the breast feeding, she may jeopardize
the newly begun pregnancy. Very likely she will be warned of the fact by the signs of threatened
miscarriage. More frequently, but in quite the same way, we find that nursing causes uterine
contractions in the early part of the lying-in period, when they are called after-pains. Women
who experience them tell us they are more severe while the infant nurses; and they also say
that the discomfort disappears after several days, a fact which indicates that involution has
made notable headway. The physician is not dependent on such evidence, however; for a simple
examination reveals at any time how far involution has progressed. By this means we have learned
that nursing facilitates the involution process. On the other hand, it is found to be true,
as we should naturally expect, that women who decline to suckle the infant recover from childbirth
somewhat less rapidly than those who follow nature's plan. In this fact, therefore, is found
a selfish motive, yet a very good one, which should impel mothers to perform this exceedingly
important duty.

Aside from the change in the mass of the uterus, notable results of involution relate to its
mouth and to its ligaments, for these structures are also chiefly muscle. The mouth of the
womb, lately stretched to permit the exit of the child, gapes widely for a time; but ultimately
its lips are drawn together, the tissues which compose them stiffen, and the canal which they
enclose is narrowed to almost microscopical dimensions. When involution is complete, the uterus
has so far regained its virginal character that no trace of childbirth remains other than a
few small fissures in the margin of its mouth.

It is the office of the ligaments to hold the uterus in proper position. In consequence of
pregnancy they have been stretched, and, as we might anticipate, after the contents of the
womb are expelled the ligaments hang loosely from its sides, very much as sails hang when a
breeze dies down. Immediately after delivery, therefore, the ligaments give the womb little
or no support; eventually they shorten and tighten, readily accommodating themselves to the
existing conditions. Until the accommodation is perfected, it is especially desirable to permit
no pressure which might push the womb backward. It is for this reason that many obstetricians
object to the time- honored custom of applying a tight bandage about the abdomen at the conclusion
of labor; for, though bandaging is not always harmful, it has a distinct tendency to misplace
the womb. A friend who has served as an assistant in one clinic where patients were bandaged
regularly and in another where they were not, tells me that displacements of the womb were
much more common among women treated by the former method.

While the process of involution is altering the shape and size of the womb, other forces are
at work within the organ to provide its cavity with a new mucous membrane. In character and
in extent the inner surface of the womb, left raw and bleeding at the conclusion of labor,
is comparable to the wound which would result if some accident removed the skin from the palms
of both hands. No one would question the wisdom of guarding such an injury to the hands; but
cleanliness is even more necessary to the prompt and healthful restoration of the uterine mucous
membrane. However, the wound within the uterus is so far from the surface of the body that
it need not be directly covered with a surgical dressing; sterile pads are kept over the vulva
to exclude contaminating material until the healing is completed. Since bleeding ceases after
that point is reached, we have no difficulty in knowing when the mucous membrane has been restored.

THE LOCHIA.--The vaginal discharge which regularly follows the termination of pregnancy gets
its name from the Greek word lochia. At first the discharge is pure blood, because it issues
exclusively from the vessels left open by the removal of the after-birth. A dark compact rock,
in which calcite and sericite predominate. Quartz is less plentiful. The results of shearing
and pressure are very prominent and bring out the foliation, even in the calcite.

10--Schistose Limestone--Same location as No. 9.

A white rock having a peculiar mottled appearance due to the inclusions of decomposing biotite
which project from the surrounding mass of calcite. There is some sericite present, also magnetite,
resulting from the decomposition of the biotite.

The bent and metamorphosed condition of the calcite shows the shearing and crushing which the
rock has undergone.

11--Phyllite--same location as No. 9.

A dark red, finely laminated rock consisting chiefly of decomposed
biotite and feldspar, occasional quartz grains and sericite and much
iron oxide.

The rock has been subjected to strong shearing force, producing a good example of schistose structure.

12--Quartzite--Same
location as No. 9.

A compact rock of light red color, made up of uniformly rounded grains of quartz, and the feldspar
with occasional grain of magnetite.

A fine siliceous material discolored
by iron oxide, acts as a cement between the grains.

The quartz grains
show secondary growth. 13--Altered Gabbro--Thirty-two Miles Above
Wuchusk Nipi on Nascaupee River.

A coarse dark green rock whose principal
constituents are pyroxene plagioclase and magnetite.

There is a slightly
developed diabasic structure and the rock is much altered by weathering;
the resultant product being chlorite.

14--Quartizite--Bibiquagin
Lake.

Hard compact rock of light red color, cut in all directions
by narrow veins of quartz, from microscope size to one-half an inch
in width.

The grains of the constituent minerals, quartz, feldspar
and magnetite have an angular brecciated appearance; showing uneven
extinction and strong crushing effects.

The magnetite is somewhat
decomposed, the resulting hematite filling the spaces between the
quartz grains.

15--Anorthosite--Shore of Lake Michikamau. Consequently douches are not now used in a routine way. Whenever irrigations
are indicated the doctor will prescribe them. Late in the puerperium vaginal douches are unobjectionable,
and patients may take them unassisted, for then the fluid will not penetrate the womb so long
as it has a free escape from the outlet of the vagina. Moreover, it is immaterial if some of
the fluid should pass into the womb, for its lining will have been largely restored by this
time, and at points where restoration is incomplete defenses have been thrown up against infection.

THE RETURN OF MENSTRUATION.--On account of the dilatation at the time of labor women who have
previously suffered with menstruation may look forward to relief after child-birth. Menstruation
generally becomes as painless as the flow of the lochia; and so far as a patient can tell the
two phenomena are identical. Actually, however, they bear no relation to each other. The fact
that the cavity of the uterus has been deprived of its lining is responsible for the lochia,
whereas the menstrual discharge occurs in spite of the lining, through which it breaks at regular
intervals in response to a stimulus that is absent for a longer or shorter period after the
birth of a child.

In the latter part of the puerperium there may be doubt as to whether a discharge is menstrual
or lochial; though, if necessary, an examination of the interior of the womb would always settle
the question, for structural changes in the uterine mucous membrane form the most characteristic
feature of menstruation. If, therefore, small bits of this tissue are removed and studied under
the microscope, a definite conclusion can be reached. Physicians may resort to such an examination
when the significance of a discharge is not clear without it; but other evidence usually enables
them to decide the matter.

The secretion of milk often exerts an influence upon the reestablishment of menstruation. Under
ideal circumstances the mother does not menstruate while she nurses her infant; whereas, if
the breasts are not in use, the menstrual function returns six to eight weeks after delivery.
Other pertinent clinical facts also lend weight to the opinion that the activity of the breasts,
more technically called lactation, should not only prevent menstruation but also hinder the
ripening of egg-cells in the ovary. Thus, the nursing infant has a potent influence upon the
reproductive function of its mother, enabling it to preserve its food supply; for in the event
of conception the milk usually decreases in amount or becomes of an inferior quality. To secure
this protective influence should prove a strong incentive for the mother to nurse her child;
in barely half the cases, however, is it effective throughout a year. One-third of nursing
mothers, statistics indicate, begin to menstruate about two months after delivery, and month
by month the proportion gradually increases.

Since menstruation appears so frequently during lactation, it cannot be considered abnormal.
It does not follow that the function will become permanently reestablished after a patient
has menstruated once; in many instances several months elapse before there is another period,
and in a few cases there will be only one period during the year the child suckles. Nevertheless,
when the function has once made its appearance extraordinary precaution should be exercised
to avert a return, and about the time its reappearance would be expected the woman should go
to bed for several days. Although this measure may prove futile, we know of no other so likely
to prove successful.

Menstruation is more apt to return prematurely after the birth of the first child than of later
ones. This may be due in part to a kind of accommodation of the maternal organism to the reproductive
process as one pregnancy follows another; but I am convinced that it is also due in part to
the greater physical and mental composure of experienced mothers. Until a woman has learned
the unwelcome consequences she is apt to take over household duties before she is equal to
the task, or she may engage in too strenuous amusements; and most mothers err in a too energetic
care of the baby.

OTHER RESTORATIVE CHANGES.--Many of the restorative changes in the mother's body are either
so intricate or so devoid of practical significance that we may pass them by; though all of
them have great interest for the specialist, and some have occasioned bitter controversy. The
alterations in the heart, for instance, have been the subject of a prolonged dispute between
French and German scientists. The former still assert that this organ regularly enlarges during
pregnancy and subsequently returns to its normal size. The Germans deny both these contentions.
Certainly the alterations are insignificant from a practical standpoint; otherwise competent
observers would not disagree.

The really important changes in the body, other than those pertaining to the uterus, are familiar
to women who have passed through pregnancy; but other prospective mothers may not understand
that they will regain the bodily condition which existed before conception.

Loss in Weight.--While the weight lost during the lying-in period is not so vital as some other
alterations, many have a keen interest in it. In addition to the loss of ten to fifteen pounds
at the time of birth, a further loss occurs in the course of a few weeks. Diminution in the
size of the uterus is responsible for the loss of nearly two pounds, and the lochial discharge
for at least another; but the chief factor concerned is the removal of water from the tissues,
many of which have become dropsical toward the end of pregnancy. Altogether patients do not
lose less than ten pounds during the lying-in period, and often lose a great deal more. The
average loss for the first week alone is said to equal one-twelfth of the patient's weight
at the conclusion of labor; the total loss for the whole of the puerperium corresponds to one-tenth
of her weight at the beginning of it. Variations from the rule are attributed to individual
peculiarities of nutrition. In general, stout women lose more than slender ones, but with all
types the loss is greater if the mother nurses her infant. On the other hand, a generous diet
tends to counteract any loss in weight whatever.

The Abdominal Wall.--Much more important than the question of weight is the recovery of the
abdominal wall from the strain imposed by the enlargement of the womb. In normal cases, to
be sure, there is very slight disproportion between the size of the pregnant uterus at term
and the capacity of the abdomen, yet the abdominal wall invariably suffers a little stretching
and unless it retains its elasticity, the viscera are deprived of essential support, and cause
more or less discomfort.

The restorative changes in the abdominal wall involve the skin, the fatty tissues, and the
muscles. The rock has probably been derived by dynamic metamorphism, from a coarse igneous rock like
a gabbro.

7--Epidotic Sericitic Schist. Washkagama Lake.

A fine grained compact gray rock, of aggregate structure, consisting chiefly of quartz, plagioclase
and biotite, and the alteration products epidote and sericite.

Under the microscope it is a confused mass of finely granulated minerals,
with numerous included crystals.

The rock has undergone complete
metamorphism and its origin is unknown.

8--Phyllite-Near Otter Lake.

A
soft extremely fine grained gray rock, with a well developed schistose
structure, carrying much magnetite, plagioclase, orthoclase and their
alteration products. As the lying-in period advances each fiber should gradually shorten until
the whole muscular structure becomes as firm and tight as it ever was. But this takes time,
and no artifice can hasten the repair. Perfect recovery is most likely with the body in a recumbent
position, which relieves the muscles from any strain. These facts are better appreciated than
formerly, hence most physicians encourage their obstetrical patients to remain in bed somewhat
longer than their mothers did. Generally nothing else will be required, and only under extraordinary
circumstances will nature need assistance. Thus, if there has been unusual distention, as,
for example, that due to twins, the muscular impairment may be extreme; or if pregnancies follow
one another in quick succession the strain becomes so nearly continuous that there is not sufficient
time for adequate repair. Whenever nature does need encouragement calisthenics of some kind
are advisable. These systematic exercises, which the patient practices in bed and flat on her
back, are usually begun about a week after delivery, though there may be some reason for beginning
them earlier or later than this.

The physician will always select the proper calisthenics, but the following "movements" generally
prove satisfactory. To exercise the muscles at the front of the abdomen one leg after the other
is raised and lowered; as this is being done the knee will be bent (flexed) at first, but later
the leg may be held straight (extended). Other muscles come into play when the feet are alternately
brought together and separated as widely as possible. A third movement which exercises the
muscles at the side of the abdomen consists in raising the shoulders from the bed and twisting
the trunk so that the weight of the chest rests now on the right, now on the left elbow. When
these movements can be performed fifteen or twenty minutes without fatigue more vigorous exercises
may be adopted. For example, the buttocks, together with the lower part of the back, are raised
off the bed, while the shoulders, elbows, and the heels remain stationary. A day or so before
getting up the patient should practice alternately raising herself from the recumbent to the
sitting posture and returning to the above position without assistance from the arms.

The value of bandaging the abdomen immediately after delivery as a means of strengthening the
abdominal muscles is questionable; though physicians agree to the advantages of a supporter
after patients are out of bed. We constantly see perfect restoration of these muscles without
the early use of a binder; in fact, women who have employed it throughout the lying-in period
do not secure an efficient abdominal wall more frequently than others who began its use two
weeks after they were delivered. Even those physicians who advocate an early application of
the binder concede that it works harm in certain cases and do not recommend it indiscriminately.

Those who postpone for a fortnight the use of the binder will escape the tendency it has to
cause displacements. By this time the involution will have advanced so far that the womb lies
within the pelvic cavity, where it is surrounded by the hip bones, which protect it from external
forces that otherwise would influence its position. When permitted to get up patients ought
to use a binder, because it counteracts the feeling of "falling to pieces" of which some complain
when the abdominal walls are not comfortably supported. But there is no evidence to show that
a binder plays any part in restoring the figure. When, in spite of ample rest, the abdominal
muscles fail to recover completely, we have no better way of strengthening them than by use
of calisthenics or massage.

The Pelvic Floor.--Second only in importance to having the womb restored to its original position
is the necessity of restoration of the pelvic floor. This structure, also called the perineum,
we should know, lies between the thighs, shuts in the bottom of the abdomen, and prevents prolapse
of the viscera. In women it forms the lower portion of the birth-canal, enclosing the aperture
through which the child enters the world. Although intelligent management of labor is of the
greatest value for the protection of the pelvic floor, under certain circumstances it may be
impossible to preserve it intact; injury to it is the rule when the first child is born, and
not unusual in later births. There can be no doubt regarding the advisability of uniting the
edges of a tear; indeed, to do so immediately is the very first essential toward restoring
the pelvic floor to its wonted integrity. But even though tears are sewn up successfully, there
is invariably some relaxation of the perineum until the restorative process, which here again
chiefly concerns the muscles, has been given opportunity to become effective.

As with all the restorative changes in the lying-in period, to rest calmly in bed favors the
perfect recovery of the pelvic floor more than anything else. Keeping the thighs together during
the first few days undoubtedly assists tears in healing, but that precaution is not always
necessary, and when it is the physician will call attention to the fact. The really important
matter, as I have said, is that the upright position should not be resumed until the pelvic
floor has become firm.

THE CARE OF THE PATIENT.--Now we have learned enough of the manifold changes in the lying-in
period to appreciate the fact that patients require medical direction even though they are
feeling perfectly well. The view held by former generations that women can get along without
a doctor and with any sort of nursing is partly responsible for the existence of gynecology,
the branch of medicine which deals with the diseases of women. Recently delivered women should
be treated as surgical patients, not because they are ill, but to keep them from becoming so.

If the patient desires the highest degree of protection an experienced nurse is indispensable,
for she will make systematic observations which would consume too much of the doctor's time
for his personal attention, yet without which he would not be sufficiently conversant with
his patient's condition to guide her properly. The temperature, the rate of the pulse, and
of the respiration should be recorded at regular intervals during the day and night. 'She is in the
right to flatter Garrick. She is in the right for two reasons; first, because she has the world
with her, who have been praising Garrick these thirty years; and
secondly, because she is rewarded for it by Garrick. Why should she
flatter ME? Moreover, slight elevations in the course of
the following week are so frequent that obstetricians have agreed to regard as a normal temperature
for this period 100.4 degrees instead of the usual normal of 98.4 degrees. The pulse-rate most
frequently does not depart from what is characteristic for the individual, though about one-fifth
of puerperal women have a slowing of the pulse, a phenomenon of favorable significance. Any
difficulty in breathing that may have existed in the latter part of pregnancy disappears when
the abdominal distention is relieved, and the respiratory rate becomes normal. So long as the
body is getting rid of the tissue-substance essential to pregnancy, but now without any purpose,
more than the usual amount of waste material is present in the expired air.

