Yet all the way back to London she was tormented by thoughts of what she had declared was "done
with"; of scenes and persons, that is, which she was determined to forget, and had just formally
renounced for ever by her symbolic action at the well.

II

"You do seem to have hit on a rather nice spot, Rachel, though lonesome," said Miss Henderson's
friend and partner, Janet Leighton, as they stood on the front steps of Great End Farm, surveying
the scene outside, on an August evening, about a week after she and Rachel had arrived with
their furniture and personal belongings to take possession of the farm.

During that week they had both worked hard--from dawn till dark, both outside and in. The harvest
was in full swing, and as the dusk was filling, Janet Leighton, who had just returned herself
from the fields, could watch the scene going on in the wheat-field beyond the farm-yard, where,
as the reaping machine steadily pared away the remaining square of wheat, two or three men
and boys with guns lay in wait outside the square for the rabbits as they bolted from their
fast lessening shelter. The gold and glow of harvest was on the fields and in the air. At last
the sun had come back to a sodden land, after weeks of cold and drenching showers which, welcomed
in June, had by the middle of August made all England tremble for the final fate of the gorgeous
crops then filling the largest area ever tilled on British soil with their fat promise. Wheat,
oats, and barley stood once more erect, roots were saved, and the young vicar of Ipscombe was
reflecting as he walked towards Great End Farm that his harvest festival sermon might now after
all be rather easier to write than had seemed probable during the foregoing anxious weeks of
chill and storm.

Rachel Henderson, who had thrown herself--tired out--into a chair in the sitting-room window,
which was wide open, nodded as she caught her friend's remark and smiled. But she did not want
to talk. She was in that state of physical fatigue when mere rest is a positive delight. The
sun, the warm air, the busy harvest scene, and all the long hours of hard but pleasant work
seemed to be still somehow in her pulses, thrilling through her blood. It was long since she
had known the acute physical pleasure of such a day; but her sense of it had conjured up involuntarily
recollections of many similar days in a distant scene--great golden spaces, blinding sun, and
huge reaping machines, twice the size of that at work in the field yonder. The recollections
were unwelcome. Thought was unwelcome. She wanted only food and sleep--deep sleep--renewing
her tired muscles, till the delicious early morning came round again, and she was once more
in the fields directing her team of workers.

"Why, there's the vicar!" said Janet Leighton, perceiving the tall and willowy figure of Mr.
Shenstone, as its owner stopped to speak to one of the boys with the guns who were watching
the game.

Rachel looked round with a look of annoyance.

"Oh, dear, what a bore," she said wearily. "I suppose I must go and tidy up. Nobody ought to
be allowed to pay visits after five o'clock."

"You asked him something about a village woman to help, didn't you?"

"I did, worse luck!" sighed Rachel, gathering up her sunbonnet and disappearing from the window.
Janet heard her go upstairs, and a hasty opening of cupboards overhead. She herself had come
back an hour earlier from the fields than Rachel in order to get supper ready, and had slipped
a skirt over the khaki tunic and knickerbockers which were her dress--and her partner's--when
at work on the farm. She wondered mischievously what Rachel would put on. That her character
included an average dose of vanity, the natural vanity of a handsome woman, Rachel's new friend
was well aware. But Janet, Rachel's elder by five years, was only tenderly amused by it. All
Rachel's foibles, as far as she knew them, were pleasant to her. They were in that early stage
of a new friendship when all is glamour.

Yet Janet did sometimes reflect, "How little I really know about her. She is a darling--but
a mystery!"

They had met at college, taken their farm training together, and fallen in love with each other.
Janet had scarcely a relation in the world. Rachel possessed, it seemed, a brother in Canada,
another in South Africa, and some cousins whom she scarcely knew, children of the uncle who
had left her three thousand pounds. Each had been attracted by the loneliness of the other,
and on leaving college nothing was more natural than they should agree to set up together.
Rachel, as the capitalist, was to choose the farm and take command. Janet went to a Cheshire
dairy farm for a time to get some further training in practical work; and she was now responsible
for the dairy at Great End, with the housekeeping and the poultry thrown in. She was a thin,
tall woman with spectacles, and had just seen her thirty-second birthday. Her eyes were honest
and clear, her mouth humorous. She never grudged other women their beauty or their success.
It always seemed to her she had what she deserved.

Meanwhile the vicar approached, and Miss Leighton descended the steps and went to meet him
at the gate. His aspect showed him apologetic.

"I have come at an unearthly hour, Miss Leighton. But I thought I should have no chance of
finding Miss Henderson free till the evening, and I came to tell you that I think I have found
a woman to do your work."

Janet bade him come in, and assured him that Rachel would soon be visible. She ushered him
into the sitting-room, which he entered on a note of wonderment.

"How nice you have made it all," he said, looking round him. "When I think what a deserted
hole this has been for years. You know, the village people firmly believe it is haunted? Old
Wellin never could get anybody to sleep here. But tramps often used it, I'm certain. They got
in through the windows. Hastings told me he had several times found a smouldering fire in the
kitchen."

"What sort is the ghost?" Janet inquired, as she pointed him to a chair, devoutly hoping that
Rachel would hurry herself.

"Well, there's a story--but I wonder whether I ought to tell you--"

"I assure you as to ghosts--I have no nerves!" said Janet with a confident laugh, "and I don't
think Rachel has either. We are more frightened of rats. This farm-yard contains the biggest
I've ever seen. I dream of them at night."

"It's not exactly the ghost--" said the vicar, hesitating.

"But the story that produced the ghost? What--a murder?"

"Half a century ago," said the vicar reassuringly; "you won't mind that?"

"Not the least. A century ago would be romantic. If it was just the other day, we should feel
we ought to have got the farm cheaper. But half a century doesn't matter. It's a mid-Victorian,
just a plain, old-fashioned murder. Who did it?"

The vicar opened his eyes a little. Miss Leighton was, he saw, a lady, and perhaps clever.
Her spectacles looked like it. No doubt she had been at Oxford or Cambridge before going to
Swanley? These educated women in new professions were becoming a very pressing and common fact!
As to the murder, he explained that it had been just an ordinary poaching affair. An old gamekeeper
on the Shepherd estate had been attacked by a gang of poachers in the winter of 1866. He had
been shot in one of the woods, and though mortally wounded had been able to drag himself to
the outskirts of the farm where his strength had failed him. He was found dead under the cart-shed
which backed on the stables, and the traces of blood on the hill marked the stages of his struggle
for life. Two men were suspected, one of them a labourer on the Great End Farm; but there was
no evidence. The suspected labourer had gone to Canada the year after the murder, and no one
knew what had happened to him.

But having told the tale the vicar was again seized with compunction.

"I oughtn't to have told you--I really oughtn't; just on your settling in--I hope you won't
tell Miss Henderson?"

Janet's amused reply was interrupted by Rachel's entrance. The vicar arose with eagerness to
receive her. He was evidently attracted by his new parishioners and anxious to make a good
impression on them. Miss Henderson's reception of the vicar, however, was far more guarded.
The easy friendliness of manner which had attracted the bailiff Hastings was, at first at any
rate, entirely absent. Her attitude was almost that of a woman defending herself against possible
intrusion, and Janet Leighton, looking on, and occasionally sharing in the conversation, was
surprised by it, as indeed she was by so many things concerning Rachel now that their acquaintance
was deepening; surprised also, as though it were a new thing, by her friend's good looks as
she sat languidly chatting with the vicar. Rachel had merely put on a blue overall above her
land-worker's dress. But her beautiful head, with its wealth of brown hair, and her face, with
its sensuous fulness of cheek and lip, its rounded lines, and lovely colour--like a slightly
overblown rose--were greatly set off by the simple folds of blue linen; and her feet and legs,
shapely but not small, in their khaki stockings and shoes, completed the general effect of
lissom youth. The flush and heat of hard bodily work had passed away. She had had time to plunge
her face into cold water and smooth her hair. But the atmosphere of the harvest field, its
ripeness and glow, seemed to be still about her. A classically minded man might have thought
of some nymph in the train of Demeter, might have fancied a horn of plenty, or a bow, slung
from the sunburnt neck.

But the vicar had forgotten his classics. En revanche, however, he was doing his best to show
himself sympathetic and up-to-date with regard to women and their new spheres of work--especially
on the land. He had noticed three girls, he said, working in the harvest field. Two of them
he recognized as from the village; the third he supposed was a stranger?

"She comes from Ralstone," said Rachel.

"Ah, that's the village where the new timber camp is. You really must see that camp, Miss Henderson."

"I hate to think of the woods coming down," she said, frowning a little.

"We all do. But that's the war. It can't be helped, alack! But it's wonderful to see the women
at work, measuring and checking, doing the brain work, in fact, while the men do the felling
and loading. It makes one envious."

The vicar sighed. A flush appeared on his young but slightly cadaverous face.

"Of the men--or the women?"

"Oh, their work, I mean. They're doing something for the war. I've done my best. But the Bishop
won't hear of it."

And he rather emphatically explained how he had applied in vain for an army chaplaincy. Health
and the shortage of clergy had been against him. "I suppose there must be some left at home,"
he said with a shrug, "and the doctors seem to have a down on me."

Janet was quite sorry for the young man--he was so eagerly apologetic, so anxious to propitiate
what he imagined ought to be their feelings about him. And Rachel all the time sat so silent
and unresponsive.

Miss Leighton drew the conversation back to the timber camp; she would like to go and see it,
she said. Every one knew the Canadians were wonderful lumbermen.

The Vicar's eyes had travelled back to Rachel.

"Were you ever in Canada, Miss Henderson?" The question was evidently thrown out nervously
at a venture, just to evoke a word or a smile from the new mistress of the farm.

Rachel Henderson frowned slightly before replying.

"Yes, I have been in Canada."

"You have? Oh, then, you know all about it."

"I know nothing about Canadian lumbering."

"You were on the prairies?"

"I lived some time on a prairie farm."

"Everything here must seem very small to you," said the vicar sympathetically. But this amiable
tone fell flat. Miss Henderson still sat silent. The vicar began to feel matters awkward and
took his hat from the floor.

"I trust you will call upon me for any help I can possibly be to you," he said, turning to
Janet Leighton. "I should be delighted to help in the harvest if you want it. I have a pair
of hands anyway, as you see!" He held them out.

He expatiated a little more on his disappointment as to the front. Janet threw in a few civil
words. Rachel Henderson had moved to the window, and was apparently looking at the farm-girls
carrying straw across the yard.

"Good-night, Miss Henderson," said the young man at last, conscious of rebuff, but irrepressibly
effusive and friendly all the time. "I hope you will let your Ralstone girl come sometimes
to the clubroom my sister and I have in the village? We feel young people ought to be amused,
especially when they work hard."

"Thank you, but it's so far away. We don't like them to be out late."

"Certainly not. But in the long evenings--don't you know?" The vicar smiled persuasively. "However,
there it is--whenever she comes she will be welcome. And then, as to your seat in church. There
is a pew that has always belonged to the farm. It is about half-way up."

"We don't go to church," said Rachel, facing him. "At least, I don't." She looked at her companion.

"And I can't be counted on," said Janet, smiling.

The vicar flushed a little.

"Then you're not Church of England?"

"I am," said Rachel indifferently; "at least I'm not anything else. Miss Leighton is a Unitarian."
Then her eyes lit up with a touch of fun, and for the first time she smiled. "I'm afraid you'll
think us dreadful heathens, Mr. Shenstone!"

What the vicar did think was that he had never seen a smile transform a face so agreeably.
And having begun to smile, Rachel perversely continued it. She walked to the gate with her
visitor, talking with irrelevant animation, inviting him to come the following day to help
in the "carrying," asking questions about the village and its people, and graciously consenting
to fix a day when she and her friend would go to tea with Miss Shenstone at the vicarage. The
young man fairly beamed under the unexpected change, and lingered at the gate as though unable
to tear himself away; till with a little peremptory nod, though still smiling, Rachel dismissed
him.

Janet Leighton meanwhile watched it all. She had seen Rachel treat a new male acquaintance
before as she had just treated the vicar. To begin with, the manners of an icicle; then a sudden
thaw, just in time to save the situation. She had come with amusement to the conclusion that,
however really indifferent or capricious, her new friend could not in the long run resign herself
to be disliked, even by a woman, and much more in the case of a man. Was it vanity, or sex,
or both? Temperament perhaps; the modern word which covers so much. Janet remembered a little
niece of her own who in her mother's absence entertained a gentleman visitor with great success.
When asked for his name, she shook her pretty head. "Just a man, mummy," she said, bridling.
Janet Leighton suspected that similar tales might have been told of Miss Henderson in her babyhood.

And yet impressions recurred to her of another kind--of a sensitive, almost fierce delicacy--a
shrinking from the ugly or merely physical facts of life, as of one who had suffered some torment
in connection with them.

Janet's eyes followed the curly brown head as its possessor came slowly back from the gate.
She was thinking of a moment when, one evening, while they were both still at college, they
had realized their liking for each other, and had agreed to set up in partnership. Then Rachel,
springing to her feet, with her hands behind her, and head thrown back, had said suddenly:
"I warn you, I have a story. I don't want to tell you, to tell anybody. I shan't tell you.
It's done with. I give you my word that I'm not a bad woman. But if you don't want to be my
partner on these terms, say so!"

And Janet had felt no difficulty whatever in becoming Rachel Henderson's partner on these terms.
Nor had she ever yet regretted it.

The light farm cart which had been sent to the station for stores drove up to the yard gate
as Rachel left it. She turned back to receive some parcels handed out by the "exempted" man
who drove it, together with some letters which had been found lying at the village post office.
Two of the letters were for Janet. She sent them up to the house, and went herself towards
the harvest field.

There they stood--the rows of golden "shocks" or stooks. The "shockers" had just finished their
day's work. She could hear the footsteps of the last batch, a cheerful chatter, while talk
and laughter came softened through the evening air. The man who had been driving the reaping
machine was doing some rough repairs to it in a far corner of the field, with a view to the
morrow, and she caught sight of her new bailiff, Hastings, who had waited to see everybody
off, disappearing towards his own cottage, which stood on a lonely spur of the down. The light
was fast going, but the deep glow of the western sky answered the paler gold of the new-made
stubble and the ranged stooks, while between rose the dark and splendid masses of the woods.

Rachel stood looking at the scene, possessed by a pleasure which in her was always an ardour.
She felt nothing by halves. The pulse of life beat in her still with an energy, a passion,
that astonished herself. She was full of eagerness for her new work and for success in it,
full of desires, too, for vague, half-seen things, things she had missed so Far--her own fault.
But somewhere in the long, hidden years, they must, they should be waiting for her.

The harvest was magnificent. She had paid the Wellins a high price for the standing crops,
but there was going to be a profit on her bargain. Her mind was full of schemes, if only she
could get the labour to carry them out. Farming was now on the up-grade. She had come into
it at the very best moment, and England would never let farming go down again, after the war,
for her own safety's sake.

The War! She felt towards it as to some distant force, which, so far as she personally was
concerned, was a force for good. Owing to the war, farming was booming all over England, and
she was in the boom, taking advantage of it. Yet she was ashamed to think of the war only in
that way. Our regiment happened to be quartered in the morning near his head-quarters. Rations were
scarce. General Howard's servant had prepared him a most tempting breakfast from supplies found
and confiscated from one of the houses. The sight of this repast and its savory fumes were too
much for the empty stomachs of two of our men, who shall be nameless
here.

The trick was a neat one. One of them got the attention of the cook and held it until the other reached
into the tent and dumped the contents of the main dish, hot and steaming, into his haversack and
quietly sauntered away. When the cook discovered his loss the other fellow was gone. These rascals
said it was the best dish of ham and eggs they ever ate.

Many houses had fine pianos and other musical instruments, and in some instances impromptu
dances were on whilst Confederate shells whanged through the house
above their heads.

It is safe to say that there was little left of valuable bric-à-brac
to greet the fugitive people on their return.

And it is highly probable that pianos and handsome furniture needed
considerable repairing after the exodus of the "Yank."

This was not due to pure vandalism, although war creates the latter, but to the feeling of
hatred for the miserable rebels who had brought on the war and were the cause of our being there.
And it must be admitted there were some who pocketed all they could for the commercialism there
might be in it, the argument again being, "somebody will take it,
and I might as well have it as the other fellow."

The first part of the argument was doubtless as true as the latter part was false. Many trinkets
were hawked about among the men after the fight as souvenirs. Among them was a silver-plated communion
flagon.


"Mummy!" she repeated, still whimpering slightly.

"Mummy's coming," said Rachel tenderly. "What a duck it is!"

And bending, she kissed the soft, downy cheek greedily, with the same ardour she had just been
throwing into her own dreams of success.

She carried the child, now quiet and comforted, towards the house. The warm weight upon her
arms was delicious to her. Only as she neared the gate in the now moonlit dusk, her lips quivered
suddenly, and two tears rolled down her cheeks.

"I haven't carried a child," she thought, "since--"

Suddenly there was a shout from the farther gate of the harvest field, and a girl came running
at top speed. It was the little one's elder sister, and with a proper scolding, Rachel gave
up her prize.

The two land-girls had finished giving food and water to the cattle and a special mush to new-born
calves. Everything was now in order for the night, and Janet, standing on the steps of the
farm-house, rang a bell, which meant that supper would be ready in a few minutes. The two partners
and their employees were soon gathered round the table in the kitchen, which was also the dining-room.
It was a cold meal of bacon, with lettuce, bread and jam, some tea made on a "Tommy's cooker,"
and potatoes which Janet, who was for the present housekeeper and cook, produced hot and steaming
from the hay-box to which she had consigned them after the midday dinner. A small oil-lamp
had been lit, and through the open windows afterglow and moonrise streamed in to mingle with
its light. There was a pot of flowers on the table--purple scabious, and tall cow-parsley,
gathered from the orchard, where no one had yet had time to cut the ragged hay beneath the trees.

The scene was typical of a new England. Women governing--and women serving--they were all alike
making their way through new paths to new ends. It was no household in the ordinary sense.
The man was wanting. The two elder women were bound to the two younger by a purely business
tie, which might or might not develop into something more personal. The two land-lasses had
come to supper in their tunics and breeches, while Rachel Henderson and Janet had now both
put on the coloured overalls which disguised the masculine garb beneath, and gave them something
of the usual feminine air. Rachel's overall, indeed, was both pretty and artistic, embroidered
a little here and there, and showing a sunburnt throat beneath the rounded chin.

The talk turned on the day's work, the weather prospects, the vagaries of the cows at milking
time, and those horrid little pests the "harvesters," which haunt the chalk soils. The two
"hands" were clear by now that they liked Miss Leighton the best of the two ladies, they hardly
knew why. Betty Rolfe, the younger of them, who came from Ralstone, was a taking creature,
with deep black, or rather violet, eyes, small features framed in curly hair, and the bloom
of ripe fruit. She was naturally full of laughter and talk, and only spoilt by her discoloured
and uneven teeth, which showed the usual English neglect of such things in childhood.

Her companion, Jenny Harberton, was a much more ordinary type, with broad cheeks, sandy hair,
and a perpetual friendly grin, which generally served her instead of speech, at least in her
employer's presence. She was a capital milker, and a good honest child. Her people lived in
the village, and her forebears had always lived there. They were absolutely indigenous and
autochthonous--a far older Brookshire family than any of the dwellers in the big houses about. 

After our return home I was told of one man who made enough money at cards to successfully start
himself in business. It was said he performed picket duty by hired proxies during the following
winter in camp at Falmouth, and gave his time wholly to the game.

"Who do you think is going to be--is already--the commandant of the timber girls in the new camp?"

Rachel couldn't guess.

"You remember Mrs. Fergusson--at College?"

Rachel raised her eyebrows.

"The Irish lady? Perfectly."

"Well, it's she. She writes to me to say she is quite settled, with thirty girls, that the
work is fascinating, and they all love it, and you and I must go over to see her."

Rachel looked irresponsive.

"It's a long way."

"Oh, Miss," said Jenny Harberton timidly, "it's not so very far. An' it's lovely when you get
there. Father was there last week, drivin' some officers. He says it is interestin'!"

Jenny's father, a plumber in the village, owned a humble open car which was in perpetual request.

"There are a hundred Canadians apparently," said Janet Leighton, looking at her letter, "and
German prisoners, quite a good few, and these thirty girls. Mrs. Fergusson begs us to come.
Sunday's no good because we couldn't see the work, but--after the harvest? We could get there
with the pony quite well."

Rachel said nothing.

Janet Leighton dropped the subject for the moment, but after supper, with her writing-desk
on her knee, she returned to it.

"Can't you go without me?" said Rachel, who was standing with her back to the room, looking
out of the window.

"Well, I could," said Janet, feeling rather puzzled, "but I thought you were curious to see
these new kinds of work for women?"

"So I am. It isn't the women."

"The German prisoners, then?" laughed Janet.

"Heavens, no!"

"The Canadians?" asked Janet--in wonder--after a moment. Rachel turned abruptly towards her.

"Well, I didn't have exactly a good time in Canada," she said, as though the admission was
dragged out of her; adding immediately, "but of course I'll go--sometime--after the harvest."

On which she left the room, and presently Janet saw her wandering among the stooks in the gloaming,
her hands behind her back. She seemed in her ripe and comely youth to be somehow the very spirit
of the harvest.

A little later, just before ten o'clock, while the sunset glow was still brooding on the harvest
fields, the two farm-girls, after a last visit to the cows, slipped into the little sitting-room.
Janet, who was mending her Sunday dress, greeted them with a smile and a kind word. Then she
moved to the table and took up a New Testament that was lying there. She was an ardent and
mystically-minded Unitarian, and her mind was much set towards religion.

"Shall we have prayers at night?" she had said quite simply to the f arm-girls on their arrival.
"Don't if you don't want to." And they had shyly said "yes"--not particularly attracted by
the proposal, but willing to please Miss Leighton, who was always nice to them.

