THE GALLANT, GOOD RIOU", and JACK RENTON

From "The Tapu Of Banderah and Other Stories"

By Louis Becke

C. Arthur Pearson Ltd.

1901

"THE GALLANT, GOOD RIOU"

This is a true story of one of Nelson's captains, he of whom Nelson wrote as "the gallant and
good Riou"--high meed of praise gloriously won at Copenhagen--but Riou, eleven years before
that day, performed a deed, now almost forgotten, which, for unselfish heroism, ranks among
the brightest in our brilliant naval annals, and in the sea story of Australia in particular.

In September, 1789, the Guardian, a forty-gun ship, under the command of Riou, then a lieutenant,
left England for the one-year-old penal settlement in New South Wales. The little colony was
in sore need of food--almost starving, in fact--and Riou's orders were to make all haste to
his destination, calling at the Cape on the way to embark live stock and other supplies. All
the ship's guns had been removed to make room for the stores, which included a "plant cabin"--a
temporary compartment built on deck for the purpose of conveying to Sydney, in pots of earth,
trees and plants selected by Sir Joseph Banks as likely to be useful to the young colony--making
her deck "a complete garden," says a newspaper of the time. Friends of the officers stationed
in New South Wales sent on board the Guardian great quantities of private goods, and these
were stored in the gun-room, which it was thought would be a safer place than the hold, but,
as the event proved, it was the most insecure.

The ship arrived at the Cape of Good Hope in November, and there filled her decks with cattle
and provisions, then sailed again, her cargo being equal in value to about £70,000. On December
23rd--twelve days after leaving the Cape--what is described as "an island of ice" was seen.
Riou gave orders to stand towards it in order to renew, by collecting lumps of ice, the supply
of water, the stock of fresh water having run very low in consequence of the quantity consumed
by the cattle.

The Public Advertiser of April 30, 1790, describes what now happened. As the ship approached
the island, the boats were hoisted out and manned, and several lumps collected. During this
time the ship lay to, and on the ice being brought on board she attempted to stand away. Very
little apprehension was at this time entertained of her safety, although the enormous bulk
of the island occasioned an unfavourable current, and in some measure gave a partial direction
to the wind. On a sudden, the base of the island, which projected under water considerably
beyond the limits of the visible parts, struck the bow of the ship; she instantly swung round,
and her head cleared, but her stern, coming on the shoal, struck repeatedly, and the sea being
very heavy, her rudder broke away, and all her works abaft were shivered. The ship in this
situation became, in a degree, embayed under the terrific bulk of ice, for its height was twice
that of the mainmast of a ship of the line, and the prominent head of the berg was every moment
expected to break away and overwhelm the ship. At length, after every practicable exertion,
she was got off the shoal, and the ice floated past her. It was soon perceived that the Guardian
had six feet of water in her hold, and it was increasing very fast The hands were set to the
pumps, others to find out the leaks, and they occasionally relieved each other. Thus they continued
labouring unceasingly on the 24th, although on the 23rd not one of them had had the least rest
The ship was at one period so much relieved that she had only two feet of water in the hold;
but at this time, when their distress wore the best aspect, the water "increased in a moment
to ten feet." Then the ship was discovered to be strained in all her works, and the sea running
high, every endeavour to check the progress of a particular leak proved ineffectual. To lighten
the ship, the cows, horses, sheep, and all the other live stock for the colony were, with their
fodder, committed to the deep to perish.

John Williams, boatswain of the Guardian, wrote to his parents in London, and told them about
the disaster, and although we have no doubt he was handier with the marline-spike than with
his pen, some of his badly spelled letter reads well:--

"This axident happened on the 23rd of December, and on the 25th the boats left us with moast
of the officers and a great part of the seamen. The master-gunner, purser, one master's mate,
one midshipman, and a parson, with nine seamen, was got into the longboat and cleared the ship.
The doctor and four or five men got into a cutter and was upset close to the ship, and all
of them was drowned. As for the rest of the boats, I believe they must be lost and all in them
perished, for wee was about six hundred leagues from any land. There was about fifty-six men
missing; a number drowned jumping into the boats; the sea ran so high that the boats could
scarce live. The commander had a strong resulution, for he said he would sooner go down in
the ship than he wold quid her. All the officers left in the ship was the commander, the carpenter,
one midshipman, and myself. After the boats left us we had two chances--either to jump or sink.
We cold just get into the sailroom and got up a new forecourse and stuck it full of oakum and
rags, and put itt under the ship's bottom; this is called fothering the ship. We found some
benefit by itt for pumping and bailing we gained on hur; that gave us a little hope of saving
our lives. We was in this terable situation for nine weeks before we got to the Cape of Good
Hope. Sometimes our upper-deck scuppers was under water outside, and the ship leying like a
log on the water, and the sea breaking over her as if she was a rock. Sixteen foot of water
was the common run for the nine weeks in the hold. I am not certain what we are to doo with
the ship as yet. We have got moast of our cargo out; it is all dammaged but the beef and pork,
which is in good order. I have lost a great dele of my cloaths, and I am thinking of drawing
of about six pound, wich I think I can make shift with. If this axident had not hapned I shold
not have had aney call for aney. As for my stores, there is a great part of them thrown overboard;
likewise all the officers stores in the ship is gone the same way, for evry thing that came
to hand was thrown ovarboard to lighten the ship. I think that we must wait till ordars comes
from England to know what we are to do with the ship."

The chronicles of the time also relate how at daylight on Christmas morning, when the water
was reported as being up to the orlop deck and gaining two feet an hour, many of the people
desponded and gave themselves up for lost. A part of those who had any strength left, seeing
that their utmost efforts to save the ship were likely to be in vain, applied to the officers
for the boats, which were promised to be in readiness for them, and the boatswain was directly
ordered to put the masts, sails, and compasses in each. The cooper was also set to work to
fill a few quarter-casks of water out of some of the butts on deck, and provisions and other
necessaries were got up from the hold.

Many hours previous to this, Lieutenant Riou had privately declared to his officers that he
saw the final loss of the ship was inevitable, and he could not help regretting the loss of
so many brave fellows. I began faintly; but he cut me short, with a kind of generous impatience.
"Yes, yes, you shall see her. She wants to see you, now that she understands, but----"

"Understands?"

"Why, you see, that little beast, Dick Burden--whose mother's staying near where Ellaline was in Scotland--went
there straight from Bamborough, and put the girl up to believe you'd
been playing her false--prejudicing me against her interests, trying
to keep for yourself things that ought to be hers; so apparently she
worked herself into a hysterical state--must have, or she wouldn't
have believed him against you; and the instant she was married to
her Frenchman, who'd come to claim her, all three dashed off here
to 'confront' you, as that cad Burden explained to me.

I couldn't understand what they were all driving at just at first, but I saw that the girl was
the living image of her mother, consequently the thing didn't need as much explaining in any way
as it might otherwise."

"She was horribly afraid you wouldn't let her marry him," I broke in, getting breath and voice back
at last.

     

     "So she said. Oh, when she knew Burden had lied to her
     about you, she repented her disloyalty, and told me how you
     hated the whole thing. I don't wonder she thought me a brute,
     never writing, never seeming to care whether she was alive
     or dead; I see now I was a brute; but it's you who've shown
     me that, not she. However, she will reap the benefit. I daresay
     three months ago I should have growled over such a marriage,
     felt inclined to wash my hands of the girl, perhaps, but now--now
     I'm delighted to have her married and--off my hands. That
     sounds callous, but I can't help it. It's true. The Frenchman
     seems a gentleman, and fond of her--trust Ellaline de Nesville's
daughter to make men fall in love!--and I wish them both joy."

     

     

     "But--but if he's poor?"

I dared to question.

"Oh, that'll be all right. I'm so thankful for the way everything has turned out, I'd give her
half my fortune.

That would be asinine, of course; but I shall settle a thousand a year on her for life, and give
her a wedding present of a cheque for twenty thousand, I think. Should you say that would
be enough to satisfy them?"

"They ought to be distracted with joy," I said (though deep in my heart I knew that Ellaline is never
likely to be satisfied with anything done for her. She always feels it might have been a little
more). "But," I went on, "maybe it's selfish to think of myself now--but I can't help it for
a moment. I have been so ashamed--so humiliated, I could hardly bear--and yet I know you won't,
you can't, see that there's any excuse----"

"Didn't I tell you that I thought you very brave?" he asked, looking at me more kindly than
I deserved.

"Yes. And I was brave." I took credit to myself. "But brave people can be wicked. I have hated
myself, knowing how you'd hate me when----"

"I don't hate you," he said. "The question is--do you hate me?"

I gasped--because I was so far from hating him; and suddenly I was afraid he might suspect exactly
how far. "No," said I. "But then, that is different. I never had any reason to hate you."

"Didn't
Ellaline warn you I was a regular dragon?"
I couldn't help laughing, because that had been our very name for
him. "Oh, well, she----" I began to apologize.

"You needn't be afraid
to confess," said he. "In the exuberance of her relief at finding
all well, and not only being forgiven, but petted, she told me what
a different man I was from the murderous image in her mind; and that
she saw now you were right about me. Is it possible you defended me
to her?"

"But of course," I said.

"In spite of all the injustice
I did you--and showed that I did you?"

"I always felt myself to blame,
and yet--yet it hurt me when I saw you disapproved of me. Since Chester----"

"It
was that ring stuck in my throat," said he.

"You knew?" I stammered,
turning red.

"Saw it in a shop window. And now I know why you did
it--why you did everything, I think. Heavens, what good it would have
done me to kick that little beast Burden all around the park!"

"There
wouldn't have been anything left of him, if you had," I giggled, beginning
to feel hysterical. "Oh, I am glad he's gone, though. I shall be going
myself to-morrow, of course, but----" We stood in silent admiration
of her heroic commander (whose supposed fate had drawn tears from us before), shining through
the rags of the meanest sailor. The fortitude of this man is a glorious example for British
officers to emulate. Since that time we have gone on board again to see him. He is affable
in his manners, and of most commanding presence.... Perhaps we, under the influence of that
attraction which great sufferings always produce, may, in the enthusiasm of our commendation,
be too lavish in his praise; were it not for this fear I would at once pronounce him the most
God-like mortal I ever viewed. They were two months from the time the accident happened until
they reached this place. Every man shared alike in the labour; and not having at all attended
to their persons during the whole of that dismal period they looked like men of another world--long
beards, dirt, and rags covered them. Mr. Riou got one of his hands crushed and one of his legs
hurt, but all are getting well. None of his people died during their fatigues. He says his
principal attention was to keep up their spirits and to watch over their health. He never allowed
himself to hope until the day before he got in here, when he made the land. Destitute of that
support, how superior must his fortitude be! He has this morning, for the first time, come
on shore, having been employed getting stores, &c., out to lighten the ship. He wavers what
to do with her--whether to put Government to the expense of repairing her here (which would
almost equal her first cost, perhaps exceed it) or burn her. Most likely the last will be resolved
on."

The ship was in such a state that she was condemned by the experts at the Cape, but Riou, bearing
in mind the distressed state of the colony of New South Wales, did not rest until he had sent
on in other vessels all the stores he could collect.

Neither did he forget the behaviour of certain convicts. In a letter to the Admiralty he wrote:
"Permit me, sir, to address you on a subject which I hope their Lordships will not consider
to be unworthy their notice. It is to recommend as much as is in my power to their Lordships'
favour and interest the case of the twenty convicts which my duty compelled me to send to Port
Jackson. But the recollection of past sufferings reminds me of that time when I found it necessary
to make use of every possible method to encourage the minds of the people under my command,
and at such time, considering how great the difference might be between a free man struggling
for life and him who perhaps might consider death as not much superior to a life of ignominy
and disgrace I publicly declared that not one of them, so far as depended on myself, should
ever be convicts. And I may with undeniable truth say that, had it not been for their assistance
and support, the Guardian would never have arrived to where she is. Their conduct prior to
the melancholy accident that happened on December 23rd last was always such as may be commended,
and from their first entrance into the ship at Spithead they ever assisted and did their duty
in like manner as the crew. I have taken the liberty to recommend them to the notice of Governor
Phillip; but I humbly hope, sir, their Lordships will consider the service done by these men
as meriting their Lordships' favour and protection, and I make no doubt that should I have
been so fortunate as to represent this in proper colours, that they will experience the benefit
of their Lordships' interest."

The prisoners were pardoned, and the Secretary of the Admiralty wrote to Riou--

"I have their Lordships' commands to acquaint you that their concern on the receipt of the
melancholy contents of the first-mentioned letter could only be exceeded by the satisfaction
they received from the account of your miraculous escape, which they attribute to your skilful
and judicious exertions under the favour of Divine Providence.... Their Lordships have communicated
to Mr. Secretary Grenville, for his Majesty's information, your recommendation of the surviving
convicts whose conduct, as it has so deservedly met with your approbation, will, there is every
reason to hope, entitle them to his Majesty's clemency."

[This story of the gallant behaviour of these twenty prisoners does not stand alone in the
convict annals of Australia. There were many other instances in which convicts behaved with
the greatest heroism. Many of the earlier explorers, such as Sturt, received most valuable
aid from prisoners who were members of their expeditions; and in the first days of the colony
both Phillip and Hunter were quick to recognise and personally reward or recommend for pardon
to the Home Government convicts who had distinguished themselves by acts of bravery.]

When Riou returned to England he was promoted to post-captain's rank, and at Copenhagen, in
1801, he commanded the Amazon. Perhaps we may be forgiven for reprinting from Southey's "Nelson"
an account of what he did there. "The signal"

JACK RENTON

Some yarns of an exceedingly tough and Munchausen-like character have been spun and printed
by men of their adventures in Australian waters or the South Seas, but an examination of such
stories by any one with personal knowledge of the Pacific and Australasia has soon, and very
deservedly so, knocked the bottom out of a considerable number of them. Yet there are stories
of South Sea adventure well authenticated, which I are not a whit less wonderful than the most
marvellous falsehoods that any man has yet told, and the story of what befell John Renton is
one of these. A file of the Queenslander (the leading Queensland weekly newspaper) for 1875
will corroborate his story; for that paper gave the best account of his adventures in one of
their November (1875) numbers, and the story was copied into nearly every paper in Australasia.

Like Harry Bluff, John Renton "when a boy left his friends and his home, o'er the wild ocean
waves all his life for to roam." Renton's home was in Stromness, in the Orkneys, and he shipped
on board a vessel bound to Sydney, in 1867, as an ordinary seaman, he then being a lad of eighteen.
When in Sydney he got about among the boarding-houses, in sailor-town, and one morning woke
up on the forecastle of the Reynard of Boston, bound on a cruise for guano among the South
Pacific Islands.

Renton had been crimped, and finding himself where he was, bothered no more about it, but went
cheerfully to work, not altogether displeased at the prospect of new adventures, which would
enable him to by and by go back to the old folks with plenty of dollars, and a stock of startling
yarns to reel off. He was a steady, straightforward lad, though somewhat thoughtless at times,
and resolved to be a steady, straightforward man. The vessel first called into the Sandwich
Islands, and there shipped a gang of Hawaiian natives to help load the guano, then she sailed
away to the southward for McKean's Island, one of the Phoenix Group, situated about lat. 3?
35' S. and long. 174? 20' W.

On board the Reynard was an old salt known to all hands as "Boston Ned." He had been a whaler
in his time, had deserted, and spent some years beachcombing among the islands of the South
Seas, and very soon, through his specious tongue, he had all hands wishing themselves clear
of the "old hooker" and enjoying life in the islands instead of cruising about, hazed here
and there and everywhere by the mates of the Reynard, whose main purpose in life was to knock
a man down in order to make him "sit up." Presently three or four of the hands became infatuated
with the idea of settling on an island, and old Ned, nothing loth, undertook to take charge
of the party if they would make an attempt to clear from the ship. The old man had taken a
fancy to young Renton, and the youngster, when the idea was imparted to him, fell in with it
enthusiastically; for he was exasperated with the treatment he had received on board the guanoman--the
afterguard of an American guano ship are usually a rough lot The ship was lying on and off
the land, there being no anchorage, and before the plan had been discussed more than a few
hours, the men, five in all, determined to put it into execution.

A small whaleboat was towing astern of the vessel in case the wind should fall light and the
ship drift in too close to the shore. It was a fine night, with a light breeze, and there was,
they thought, a good chance of getting to the southward, to one of the Samoan group, where
they could settle, or by shipping on board a trading schooner they might later on strike some
other island to their fancy.

By stealth they managed to stow in the boat a couple of small breakers of water, holding together
sixteen gallons, and the forecastle bread barge with biscuits enough for three meals a day
per man for ten days. They managed also to steal four hams, and each man brought pipes, tobacco,
and matches. A harpoon with some line, an old galley frying-pan, mast, sail and oars, and some
blankets completed the equipment For they took no compass, though they made several attempts
to get at one slung in the cabin, and tried at first to take one out of the poop binnacle;
but the officer of the watch on deck was too wide awake for them to risk that, and the cabin
compass was screwed to the roof close to the skipper's berth; and so the old man who was their
leader, old sailor and whaler as he was, actually gave up the idea of taking a compass, and
these people without more ado, one night slipped over the side into the whaleboat, cut the
painter, and by daylight the boat was out of sight of land and of the ship. They were afloat
upon the Pacific, running six or seven miles before a north-east breeze and expecting to sight
land in less than a week, and were already anticipating the freedom and luxury of island life
in store for them.

Three days later it fell calm, and they had to take to the oars. The sun was intensely hot,
the water a sheet of glass reflecting back upon them the ball of fire overhead. Now and again
a cats-paw would ripple across the plain of water, but there were no clouds, there was no sight
of land. They kept on pulling. For three, for four days--a week--for ten days--they tugged
at the oars, except when a favouring breeze came. The water was reduced to a few pints, the
food to a few days' half-rations. Their limbs were cramped so that they could not move from
their places in the boat, their bodies were becoming covered with sores; and the wind had now
died away entirely, the sea was without a ripple, and for ever shone above them the fierce,
relentless sun.

Gradually it had dawned upon them that they were lost--that perhaps they had run past Samoa.
The first eagerness of their adventure gave place to despair, and by degrees their despair
grew to madness of a more awful kind.

On the fifteenth day there appeared to the south and east a low, dark-grey cloud. "Land at
last!" was the unspoken thought in each man's heart as he looked at his comrade, but feared
to voice his hope. And presently the cloud grew darker and more clearly defined, and one of
the men--the next oldest to the author of all their miseries--fell upon his weak and trembling
knees, and raised his hands in thankfulness and prayer to the Almighty. Alas! it was not land,
but the ominous forerunner of the fierce and sweeping mid-equatorial gale which lay veiled
behind. In less than half an hour it came upon and smote them with savage fury, and the little
boat was running before a howling gale and a maddened, foam-whipped sea.

And then it happened that, ill and suffering as he was from the agonies of hunger and thirst,
the heroic nature of old "Boston Ned" came out, and his bold sailor's heart cheered and encouraged
his wretched, despairing companions. All that night, and for the greater part of the following
day, he stood in the stern-sheets, grasping the bending steer-oar as the boat swayed and surged
along before the gale, and constantly watching lest she should broach to and smother in the
roaring seas; the others lay in the bottom, feebly baling out the water, encouraged, urged,
and driven to that exertion by the gallant old American seaman. 

Yes, I do, though. Did it concern me? Can you answer me that?"

"I can answer so far, if you don't press me further.

It did concern you. I would not sacrifice you to--but I don't want to go on, please!"

"You shan't. That's enough. You sacrificed yourself rather than sacrifice me. You----"

"I'd sinned enough against you."
"You gave me back my youth."

"I?"

"Don't you know I love you--worship
you--adore you?"

Yes, he said that, mother. His lips said it, and
his dear, dear eyes. I looked up to them, and mine overflowed, and
he needed no other answer, for he took me in his arms. I didn't know
people could be so happy. I could have died in that moment, only I
would much, much rather live.

Twenty days out the last particle of food and water had been consumed, and though the boat
was now steering as near westward as old Ned could judge, before a gentle south-east trade,
madness and despair were coming quickly upon them, and on the twenty-third day two of the five
miserable creatures began to drink copiously of salt water--the drink of Death.

Renton, though he had suffered to the bitter full from the agonies of body and mind endured
by his shipmates, did not yield to this temptation; and by a merciful providence remained sane
enough to turn his face away from the water. But as he lay crouched in a heap in the bottom
of the boat, with a silent prayer in his heart to his Creator to quickly end his sufferings,
he heard "Boston Ned" and the only remaining sane man except himself muttering hoarsely together
and looking sometimes at him and sometimes at the two almost dying men who lay moaning beside
him. Presently the man who was talking to Ned pulled out of his blanket--which lay in the stern-sheets--a
razor, and turning his back to Renton began stropping it upon the sole of his boot, and even
"Boston Ned" himself looked with awful eyes and blood-baked twitching lips upon the youngster.

The lad saw what was coming, and as quickly as possible made his way forward and sat there,
with his eyes fixed upon the two men aft, waiting for the struggle which he thought must soon
begin. All that day and the night he sat and watched, determined to make a fight for the little
life which remained in him, and Ned and the other man at times still muttered and eyed him
wolfishly.

And so, on and on, these seeming outcasts of God's mercy sailed before the warm breath of the
south-east trade wind, above them the blazing tropic sun, around them the wide, sailless expanse
of the blue Pacific unbroken in its dreadful loneliness except for a wandering grey-winged
booby or flocks of whale-birds floating upon its gentle swell, and within their all but deadened
hearts naught but grim despair and a dulled sense of coming dissolution.

As he sat thus, supporting his swollen head upon his skeleton hands, Renton saw something astern,
moving slowly after the boat--something that he knew was waiting and following for the awful
deed to be done, so that it too might share in the dreadful feast.

Raising his bony arm, he pointed towards the moving fin. To him a shark meant no added horror
or danger to their position, but possibly deliverance. "Boston Ned" and the other man first
looked at the coming shark, and then with sunken eyes again turned to Renton. Voices none of
them had, and the lad's parched tongue could not articulate, but with signs and lip movements
he tried to make the other two men understand.

No shark hook had they; nor, if they had had one, had they anything with which to bait it. "No,"
he said. "No, that must not be. I--Ellaline wants you."

"Hadn't I better see her now?" I asked meekly.

"Not yet. Tell me--did that cad try you too far at Bamborough, and did you defy him?"
I nodded Yes.

"What did he do?"

"He didn't do anything. He wanted
me to promise something."

"To marry him at once?" Sir Lionel was
looking dangerous.

"No-o. It wasn't anything about me. I can't tell
you, because it concerns someone else. Please don't ask me."

"I won't.
If it concerns someone else, not yourself, I don't care.
But at last hunger prevailed, and, swimming slowly up till within a few yards of the boat,
it made a sudden rush for the human bait, missed it, and the harpoon, deftly darted by the
old ex-whaler, clove through its tough skin and buried itself deep into its body between the
shoulders.

It took the worn-out, exhausted men a long time to haul alongside and despatch the struggling
monster, which, says Renton, was ten feet in length.

Then followed shark's flesh and shark's blood, some of the former, after the first raw meal,
being cooked on a fire made of the biscuit barge upon a wet blanket spread in the bottom of
the boat. The hot weather, however, soon turned the remaining portion putrid, but two or three
days later came God's blessed rain, and gave them hope and life again. They managed to save
a considerable quantity of water, and, though the shark's flesh was in a horrible condition,
they continued to feed upon it until the thirty-fifth day.

On this day they saw land, high and well wooded; but now the trade-wind failed them, and for
the following two days the unfortunate men contended with baffling light airs, calms, and strong
currents. At last they got within a short distance of the shore, and sought for a landing-place
through the surrounding surf.

Suddenly four or five canoes darted out from the shore. They were filled with armed savages,
whose aspect and demeanour warned old Ned that he and his comrades were among cannibals. Sweeping
alongside the boat, the savages seized the white men, who were all too feeble to resist, or
even move, put them into their canoes, and conveyed them on shore, fed them, and treated them
with much apparent kindness. Crowds of natives from that part of the island--which was Malayta,
one of the Solomon Group--came to look at them, and one man, a chief, took a fancy to Renton,
and claimed him as his own especial property.

Renton never saw the rest of his companions again, for they were removed to the interior of
the Island--probably sold to some of the bush tribes, the "man-a-bush," as the coastal natives
called them. Their fate is not difficult to guess, for the people of Malayta were then, as
they are now, cannibals. 

Her Honoré is really very handsome; but I can't write about them now, though they have been so
important in my life; and without them there would have been no life worth speaking of.

Emily and Lionel (I am to call him that now) will take me to you, and everything shall be arranged
as you wish.

Dear little, wise mother, I wonder if you ever thought
it might end like this? I didn't. But he is the most glorious man
who ever happened. Only, he didn't happen. All the rest of the world--not
counting you--happened.
He told his rescuers that the people among whom he had lived had taken a great fancy to him,
and had treated him with great kindness.

If the reader will look at a chart of the South Pacific, he will see, among the Phoenix Group,
the position of McKean's Island; two thousand miles distant, westward and southward, is the
island of Malayta, upon which Renton and his companions in misery drifted.

