Travels with a Donkey in the Cevennes by Robert Louis Stevenson

A New Impression with a Frontispiece by Walter Crane London: Chatto & Windus, 1907

[Frontispiece, by Walter Crane: front.jpg]

My Dear Sidney Colvin,

The journey which this little book is to describe was very agreeable and fortunate for me.
After an uncouth beginning, I had the best of luck to the end.

Every book is, in an intimate sense, a circular letter to the friends of him who writes it.
They alone take his meaning; they find private messages, assurances of love, and expressions
of gratitude, dropped for them in every corner.  The public is but a generous patron who defrays
the postage.  Yet though the letter is directed to all, we have an old and kindly custom of
addressing it on the outside to one.  Of what shall a man be proud, if he is not proud of his
friends?  And so, my dear Sidney Colvin, it is with pride that I sign myself affectionately yours,

R. L. S.

VELAY

   Many are the mighty things, and nought is more mighty than man. . . .
   He masters by his devices the tenant of the fields.

   SOPHOCLES.

   Who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass?

   JOB.

THE DONKEY, THE PACK, AND THE PACK-SADDLE

In a little place called Le Monastier, in a pleasant highland valley fifteen miles from Le
Puy, I spent about a month of fine days.  Monastier is notable for the making of lace, for
drunkenness, for freedom of language, and for unparalleled political dissension.  There are
adherents of each of the four French parties--Legitimists, Orleanists, Imperialists, and Republicans--in
this little mountain-town; and they all hate, loathe, decry, and calumniate each other.  Except
for business purposes, or to give each other the lie in a tavern brawl, they have laid aside
even the civility of speech.  'Tis a mere mountain Poland.  In the midst of this Babylon I
found myself a rallying-point; every one was anxious to be kind and helpful to the stranger.
This was not merely from the natural hospitality of mountain people, nor even from the surprise
with which I was regarded as a man living of his own free will in Le Monastier, when he might
just as well have lived anywhere else in this big world; it arose a good deal from my projected
excursion southward through the Cevennes.  A traveller of my sort was a thing hitherto unheard
of in that district.  I was looked upon with contempt, like a man who should project a journey
to the moon, but yet with a respectful interest, like one setting forth for the inclement Pole.
All were ready to help in my preparations; a crowd of sympathisers supported me at the critical
moment of a bargain; not a step was taken but was heralded by glasses round and celebrated
by a dinner or a breakfast.

It was already hard upon October before I was ready to set forth, and at the high altitudes
over which my road lay there was no Indian summer to be looked for.  I was determined, if not
to camp out, at least to have the means of camping out in my possession; for there is nothing
more harassing to an easy mind than the necessity of reaching shelter by dusk, and the hospitality
of a village inn is not always to be reckoned sure by those who trudge on foot.  A tent, above
all for a solitary traveller, is troublesome to pitch, and troublesome to strike again; and
even on the march it forms a conspicuous feature in your baggage.  A sleeping-sack, on the
other hand, is always ready--you have only to get into it; it serves a double purpose--a bed
by night, a portmanteau by day; and it does not advertise your intention of camping out to
every curious passer- by.  This is a huge point.  If a camp is not secret, it is but a troubled
resting-place; you become a public character; the convivial rustic visits your bedside after
an early supper; and you must sleep with one eye open, and be up before the day.  I decided
on a sleeping-sack; and after repeated visits to Le Puy, and a deal of high living for myself
and my advisers, a sleeping-sack was designed, constructed, and triumphantly brought home.

This child of my invention was nearly six feet square, exclusive of two triangular flaps to
serve as a pillow by night and as the top and bottom of the sack by day.  I call it 'the sack,'
but it was never a sack by more than courtesy: only a sort of long roll or sausage, green waterproof
cart-cloth without and blue sheep's fur within.  It was commodious as a valise, warm and dry
for a bed.  There was luxurious turning room for one; and at a pinch the thing might serve
for two.  I could bury myself in it up to the neck; for my head I trusted to a fur cap, with
a hood to fold down over my ears and a band to pass under my nose like a respirator; and in
case of heavy rain I proposed to make myself a little tent, or tentlet, with my waterproof
coat, three stones, and a bent branch.

It will readily be conceived that I could not carry this huge package on my own, merely human,
shoulders.  It remained to choose a beast of burden.  Now, a horse is a fine lady among animals,
flighty, timid, delicate in eating, of tender health; he is too valuable and too restive to
be left alone, so that you are chained to your brute as to a fellow galley-slave; a dangerous
road puts him out of his wits; in short, he's an uncertain and exacting ally, and adds thirty-fold
to the troubles of the voyager.  What I required was something cheap and small and hardy, and
of a stolid and peaceful temper; and all these requisites pointed to a donkey.  Indeed, that
was as it should be; for she was only an appurtenance of my mattress, or self-acting bedstead
on four castors.

I had a last interview with Father Adam in a billiard-room at the witching hour of dawn, when
I administered the brandy.  He professed himself greatly touched by the separation, and declared
he had often bought white bread for the donkey when he had been content with black bread for
himself; but this, according to the best authorities, must have been a flight of fancy.  He
had a name in the village for brutally misusing the ass; yet it is certain that he shed a tear,
and the tear made a clean mark down one cheek.

Monastrians, of all shades of thought in politics, had agreed in threatening me with many ludicrous
misadventures, and with sudden death in many surprising forms.  Cold, wolves, robbers, above
all the nocturnal practical joker, were daily and eloquently forced on my attention. Other, less
disagreeable and less dangerous, means were quickly invented. When the woolen manufacturers
were prevented from employing little boys and girls, they invented the piecing machine.[192]
Thousands of instances might be compiled in support of the contention of Professor Giddings, equally
as pertinent as these. Another important point is that the amount of such disagreeable and dangerous
work to be done would be very much less than now. That would be an inevitable result of the
scientific organization of industry. It is likely that, if the subject could be properly investigated,
it could be shown that the amount of such labor involved in wasteful
and unnecessary advertising alone is enormous.  The doubled sack, my pilot-coat (for
it was warm, and I was to walk in my waistcoat), a great bar of black bread, and an open basket
containing the white bread, the mutton, and the bottles, were all corded together in a very
elaborate system of knots, and I looked on the result with fatuous content.  In such a monstrous
deck-cargo, all poised above the donkey's shoulders, with nothing below to balance, on a brand-new
pack-saddle that had not yet been worn to fit the animal, and fastened with brand-new girths
that might be expected to stretch and slacken by the way, even a very careless traveller should
have seen disaster brewing.  That elaborate system of knots, again, was the work of too many
sympathisers to be very artfully designed.  It is true they tightened the cords with a will;
as many as three at a time would have a foot against Modestine's quarters, and be hauling with
clenched teeth; but I learned afterwards that one thoughtful person, without any exercise of
force, can make a more solid job than half-a-dozen heated and enthusiastic grooms.  I was then
but a novice; even after the misadventure of the pad nothing could disturb my security, and
I went forth from the stable door as an ox goeth to the slaughter.  But it was not my turn
for the moment.

I was proud of my new lore, and thought I had learned the art to perfection.  And certainly
Modestine did wonders for the rest of the fore- noon, and I had a breathing space to look about
me.  It was Sabbath; the mountain-fields were all vacant in the sunshine; and as we came down
through St. Martin de Frugeres, the church was crowded to the door, there were people kneeling
without upon the steps, and the sound of the priest's chanting came forth out of the dim interior.
It gave me a home feeling on the spot; for I am a countryman of the Sabbath, so to speak, and
all Sabbath observances, like a Scottish accent, strike in me mixed feelings, grateful and
the reverse.  It is only a traveller, hurrying by like a person from another planet, who can
rightly enjoy the peace and beauty of the great ascetic feast.  The sight of the resting country
does his spirit good.  There is something better than music in the wide unusual silence; and
it disposes him to amiable thoughts, like the sound of a little river or the warmth of sunlight.

In this pleasant humour I came down the hill to where Goudet stands in a green end of a valley,
with Chateau Beaufort opposite upon a rocky steep, and the stream, as clear as crystal, lying
in a deep pool between them. Above and below, you may hear it wimpling over the stones, an
amiable stripling of a river, which it seems absurd to call the Loire.  On all sides, Goudet
is shut in by mountains; rocky footpaths, practicable at best for donkeys, join it to the outer
world of France; and the men and women drink and swear, in their green corner, or look up at
the snow-clad peaks in winter from the threshold of their homes, in an isolation, you would
think, like that of Homer's Cyclops.  But it is not so; the postman reaches Goudet with the
letter-bag; the aspiring youth of Goudet are within a day's walk of the railway at Le Puy;
and here in the inn you may find an engraved portrait of the host's nephew, Regis Senac, 'Professor
of Fencing and Champion of the two Americas,' a distinction gained by him, along with the sum
of five hundred dollars, at Tammany Hall, New York, on the 10th April 1876.

To make matters worse, we encountered another donkey, ranging at will upon the roadside; and
this other donkey chanced to be a gentleman.  He and Modestine met nickering for joy, and I
had to separate the pair and beat down their young romance with a renewed and feverish bastinado.
If the other donkey had had the heart of a male under his hide, he would have fallen upon me
tooth and hoof; and this was a kind of consolation--he was plainly unworthy of Modestine's
affection.  But the incident saddened me, as did everything that spoke of my donkey's sex.

I had the devil's own trouble to get the thing righted; and the instant I had done so, without
hesitation, it toppled and fell down upon the other side.  Judge if I was hot!  And yet not
a hand was offered to assist me. The man, indeed, told me I ought to have a package of a different
shape. I suggested, if he knew nothing better to the point in my predicament, he might hold
his tongue.  And the good-natured dog agreed with me smilingly.  It was the most despicable
fix.  I must plainly content myself with the pack for Modestine, and take the following items
for my own share of the portage: a cane, a quart-flask, a pilot-jacket heavily weighted in
the pockets, two pounds of black bread, and an open basket full of meats and bottles.  I believe
I may say I am not devoid of greatness of soul; for I did not recoil from this infamous burden.

I had now an arm free to thrash Modestine, and cruelly I chastised her. If I were to reach
the lakeside before dark, she must bestir her little shanks to some tune.  Already the sun
had gone down into a windy-looking mist; and although there were still a few streaks of gold
far off to the east on the hills and the black fir-woods, all was cold and grey about our onward
path.  An infinity of little country by-roads led hither and thither among the fields.  It
was the most pointless labyrinth.  I could see my destination overhead, or rather the peak
that dominates it; but choose as I pleased, the roads always ended by turning away from it,
and sneaking back towards the valley, or northward along the margin of the hills.  The failing
light, the waning colour, the naked, unhomely, stony country through which I was travelling,
threw me into some despondency.  I promise you, the stick was not idle; I think every decent
step that Modestine took must have cost me at least two emphatic blows.  There was not another
sound in the neighbourhood but that of my unwearying bastinado.

Suddenly, in the midst of my toils, the load once more bit the dust, and, as by enchantment,
all the cords were simultaneously loosened, and the road scattered with my dear possessions.
The packing was to begin again from the beginning; and as I had to invent a new and better
system, I do not doubt but I lost half an hour.  It began to be dusk in earnest as I reached
a wilderness of turf and stones.  It had the air of being a road which should lead everywhere
at the same time; and I was falling into something not unlike despair when I saw two figures
stalking towards me over the stones.  They walked one behind the other like tramps, but their
pace was remarkable.  The son led the way, a tall, ill-made, sombre, Scottish-looking man;
the mother followed, all in her Sunday's best, with an elegantly embroidered ribbon to her
cap, and a new felt hat atop, and proffering, as she strode along with kilted petticoats, a
string of obscene and blasphemous oaths.

I hailed the son, and asked him my direction.  He pointed loosely west and north-west, muttered
an inaudible comment, and, without slackening his pace for an instant, stalked on, as he was
going, right athwart my path.  The mother followed without so much as raising her head.  I
shouted and shouted after them, but they continued to scale the hillside, and turned a deaf
ear to my outcries.  At last, leaving Modestine by herself, I was constrained to run after
them, hailing the while.  They stopped as I drew near, the mother still cursing; and I could
see she was a handsome, motherly, respectable-looking woman.  The son once more answered me
roughly and inaudibly, and was for setting out again.  But this time I simply collared the
mother, who was nearest me, and, apologising for my violence, declared that I could not let
them go until they had put me on my road.  They were neither of them offended--rather mollified
than otherwise; told me I had only to follow them; and then the mother asked me what I wanted
by the lake at such an hour.  I replied, in the Scottish manner, by inquiring if she had far
to go herself.  She told me, with another oath, that she had an hour and a half's road before
her. And then, without salutation, the pair strode forward again up the hillside in the gathering
dusk.

I returned for Modestine, pushed her briskly forward, and, after a sharp ascent of twenty minutes,
reached the edge of a plateau.  The view, looking back on my day's journey, was both wild and
sad.  Mount Mezenc and the peaks beyond St. Julien stood out in trenchant gloom against a cold
glitter in the east; and the intervening field of hills had fallen together into one broad
wash of shadow, except here and there the outline of a wooded sugar-loaf in black, here and
there a white irregular patch to represent a cultivated farm, and here and there a blot where
the Loire, the Gazeille, or the Laussonne wandered in a gorge.

Soon we were on a high-road, and surprise seized on my mind as I beheld a village of some magnitude
close at hand; for I had been told that the neighbourhood of the lake was uninhabited except
by trout.  The road smoked in the twilight with children driving home cattle from the fields;
and a pair of mounted stride-legged women, hat and cap and all, dashed past me at a hammering
trot from the canton where they had been to church and market.  I asked one of the children
where I was.  At Bouchet St. Nicolas, he told me.  Thither, about a mile south of my destination,
and on the other side of a respectable summit, had these confused roads and treacherous peasantry
conducted me.  My shoulder was cut, so that it hurt sharply; my arm ached like toothache from
perpetual beating; I gave up the lake and my design to camp, and asked for the auberge.

I HAVE A GOAD

The auberge of Bouchet St. Nicolas was among the least pretentious I have ever visited; but
I saw many more of the like upon my journey.  Indeed, it was typical of these French highlands.
Imagine a cottage of two stories, with a bench before the door; the stable and kitchen in a
suite, so that Modestine and I could hear each other dining; furniture of the plainest, earthern
floors, a single bedchamber for travellers, and that without any convenience but beds.  In
the kitchen cooking and eating go forward side by side, and the family sleep at night.  Any
one who has a fancy to wash must do so in public at the common table.  The food is sometimes
spare; hard fish and omelette have been my portion more than once; the wine is of the smallest,
the brandy abominable to man; and the visit of a fat sow, grouting under the table and rubbing
against your legs, is no impossible accompaniment to dinner.

But the people of the inn, in nine cases out of ten, show themselves friendly and considerate.
As soon as you cross the doors you cease to be a stranger; and although these peasantry are
rude and forbidding on the highway, they show a tincture of kind breeding when you share their
hearth.  At Bouchet, for instance, I uncorked my bottle of Beaujolais, and asked the host to
join me.  He would take but little.

'I am an amateur of such wine, do you see?' he said, 'and I am capable of leaving you not enough.'

In these hedge-inns the traveller is expected to eat with his own knife; unless he ask, no
other will be supplied: with a glass, a whang of bread, and an iron fork, the table is completely
laid.  My knife was cordially admired by the landlord of Bouchet, and the spring filled him
with wonder.

'I should never have guessed that,' he said.  'I would bet,' he added, weighing it in his hand,
'that this cost you not less than five francs.'

When I told him it had cost me twenty, his jaw dropped.

He was a mild, handsome, sensible, friendly old man, astonishingly ignorant.  His wife, who
was not so pleasant in her manners, knew how to read, although I do not suppose she ever did
so.  She had a share of brains and spoke with a cutting emphasis, like one who ruled the roast.

'My man knows nothing,' she said, with an angry nod; 'he is like the beasts.'

And the old gentleman signified acquiescence with his head.  There was no contempt on her part,
and no shame on his; the facts were accepted loyally, and no more about the matter.

I was tightly cross-examined about my journey; and the lady understood in a moment, and sketched
out what I should put into my book when I got home.  'Whether people harvest or not in such
or such a place; if there were forests; studies of manners; what, for example, I and the master
of the house say to you; the beauties of Nature, and all that.'  And she interrogated me with
a look.

'It is just that,' said I.

'You see,' she added to her husband, 'I understood that.'

They were both much interested by the story of my misadventures.

'In the morning,' said the husband, 'I will make you something better than your cane.  Such
a beast as that feels nothing; it is in the proverb--dur comme un ane; you might beat her insensible
with a cudgel, and yet you would arrive nowhere.'

Something better!  I little knew what he was offering.

The sleeping-room was furnished with two beds.  I had one; and I will own I was a little abashed
to find a young man and his wife and child in the act of mounting into the other.  This was
my first experience of the sort; and if I am always to feel equally silly and extraneous, I
pray God it be my last as well.  I kept my eyes to myself, and know nothing of the woman except
that she had beautiful arms, and seemed no whit embarrassed by my appearance.  As a matter
of fact, the situation was more trying to me than to the pair. But when the Socialists of to-day speak of
the "abolition of wages," or of the wages system, they use the words in the same sense as they
speak of the abolition of capital: they would abolish only the social
relations implied in the terms.
He told me that he was a cooper of Alais travelling to St. Etienne in search of work, and that
in his spare moments he followed the fatal calling of a maker of matches.  Me he readily enough
divined to be a brandy merchant.

I was up first in the morning (Monday, September 23rd), and hastened my toilette guiltily,
so as to leave a clear field for madam, the cooper's wife.  I drank a bowl of milk, and set
off to explore the neighbourhood of Bouchet.  It was perishing cold, a grey, windy, wintry
morning; misty clouds flew fast and low; the wind piped over the naked platform; and the only
speck of colour was away behind Mount Mezenc and the eastern hills, where the sky still wore
the orange of the dawn.

It was five in the morning, and four thousand feet above the sea; and I had to bury my hands
in my pockets and trot.  People were trooping out to the labours of the field by twos and threes,
and all turned round to stare upon the stranger.  I had seen them coming back last night, I
saw them going afield again; and there was the life of Bouchet in a nutshell.

When I came back to the inn for a bit of breakfast, the landlady was in the kitchen combing
out her daughter's hair; and I made her my compliments upon its beauty.

'Oh no,' said the mother; 'it is not so beautiful as it ought to be. Look, it is too fine.'

Thus does a wise peasantry console itself under adverse physical circumstances, and, by a startling
democratic process, the defects of the majority decide the type of beauty.

'And where,' said I, 'is monsieur?'

'The master of the house is upstairs,' she answered, 'making you a goad.'

Blessed be the man who invented goads!  Blessed the innkeeper of Bouchet St. Nicolas, who introduced
me to their use!  This plain wand, with an eighth of an inch of pin, was indeed a sceptre when
he put it in my hands.  Thenceforward Modestine was my slave.  A prick, and she passed the
most inviting stable door.  A prick, and she broke forth into a gallant little trotlet that
devoured the miles.  It was not a remarkable speed, when all was said; and we took four hours
to cover ten miles at the best of it.  But what a heavenly change since yesterday!  No more
wielding of the ugly cudgel; no more flailing with an aching arm; no more broadsword exercise,
but a discreet and gentlemanly fence.  And what although now and then a drop of blood should
appear on Modestine's mouse- coloured wedge-like rump?  I should have preferred it otherwise,
indeed; but yesterday's exploits had purged my heart of all humanity.  The perverse little
devil, since she would not be taken with kindness, must even go with pricking.

It was bleak and bitter cold, and, except a cavalcade of stride-legged ladies and a pair of
post-runners, the road was dead solitary all the way to Pradelles.  I scarce remember an incident
but one.  A handsome foal with a bell about his neck came charging up to us upon a stretch
of common, sniffed the air martially as one about to do great deeds, and suddenly thinking
otherwise in his green young heart, put about and galloped off as he had come, the bell tinkling
in the wind.  For a long while afterwards I saw his noble attitude as he drew up, and heard
the note of his bell; and when I struck the high-road, the song of the telegraph-wires seemed
to continue the same music.

Pradelles stands on a hillside, high above the Allier, surrounded by rich meadows.  They were
cutting aftermath on all sides, which gave the neighbourhood, this gusty autumn morning, an
untimely smell of hay.  On the opposite bank of the Allier the land kept mounting for miles
to the horizon: a tanned and sallow autumn landscape, with black blots of fir- wood and white
roads wandering through the hills.  Over all this the clouds shed a uniform and purplish shadow,
sad and somewhat menacing, exaggerating height and distance, and throwing into still higher
relief the twisted ribbons of the highway.  It was a cheerless prospect, but one stimulating
to a traveller.  For I was now upon the limit of Velay, and all that I beheld lay in another
county--wild Gevaudan, mountainous, uncultivated, and but recently disforested from terror
of the wolves.

Wolves, alas, like bandits, seem to flee the traveller's advance; and you may trudge through
all our comfortable Europe, and not meet with an adventure worth the name.  But here, if anywhere,
a man was on the frontiers of hope.  For this was the land of the ever-memorable BEAST, the
Napoleon Bonaparte of wolves.  What a career was his!  He lived ten months at free quarters
in Gevaudan and Vivarais; he ate women and children and 'shepherdesses celebrated for their
beauty'; he pursued armed horsemen; he has been seen at broad noonday chasing a post-chaise
and outrider along the king's high-road, and chaise and outrider fleeing before him at the
gallop.  He was placarded like a political offender, and ten thousand francs were offered for
his head.  And yet, when he was shot and sent to Versailles, behold! a common wolf, and even
small for that.  'Though I could reach from pole to pole,' sang Alexander Pope; the Little
Corporal shook Europe; and if all wolves had been as this wolf, they would have changed the
history of man.  M. Elie Berthet has made him the hero of a novel, which I have read, and do
not wish to read again.

I hurried over my lunch, and was proof against the landlady's desire that I should visit our
Lady of Pradelles, 'who performed many miracles, although she was of wood'; and before three-quarters
of an hour I was goading Modestine down the steep descent that leads to Langogne on the Allier.
On both sides of the road, in big dusty fields, farmers were preparing for next spring.  Every
fifty yards a yoke of great-necked stolid oxen were patiently haling at the plough.  I saw
one of these mild formidable servants of the glebe, who took a sudden interest in Modestine
and me.  The furrow down which he was journeying lay at an angle to the road, and his head
was solidly fixed to the yoke like those of caryatides below a ponderous cornice; but he screwed
round his big honest eyes and followed us with a ruminating look, until his master bade him
turn the plough and proceed to reascend the field.  From all these furrowing ploughshares,
from the feet of oxen, from a labourer here and there who was breaking the dry clods with a
hoe, the wind carried away a thin dust like so much smoke.  It was a fine, busy, breathing,
rustic landscape; and as I continued to descend, the highlands of Gevaudan kept mounting in
front of me against the sky.

I had crossed the Loire the day before; now I was to cross the Allier; so near are these two
confluents in their youth.  Just at the bridge of Langogne, as the long-promised rain was beginning
to fall, a lassie of some seven or eight addressed me in the sacramental phrase, 'D'ou'st-ce-
que vous venez?'  She did it with so high an air that she set me laughing; and this cut her
to the quick.  She was evidently one who reckoned on respect, and stood looking after me in
silent dudgeon, as I crossed the bridge and entered the county of Gevaudan.

   PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.

A CAMP IN THE DARK

The next day (Tuesday, September 24th), it was two o'clock in the afternoon before I got my
journal written up and my knapsack repaired, for I was determined to carry my knapsack in the
future and have no more ado with baskets; and half an hour afterwards I set out for Le Cheylard
l'Eveque, a place on the borders of the forest of Mercoire.  A man, I was told, should walk
there in an hour and a half; and I thought it scarce too ambitious to suppose that a man encumbered
with a donkey might cover the same distance in four hours. 

This sort of thing is a permissible luxury to those who can afford and desire an exhibition
garden, but it is not watching the garden growing and quivering and responding to all its vicissitudes
and escapes as does the humble owner.
  I was soon out of the cultivated basin of the Allier, and away
from the ploughing oxen, and such-like sights of the country.  Moor, heathery marsh, tracts
of rock and pines, woods of birch all jewelled with the autumn yellow, here and there a few
naked cottages and bleak fields,--these were the characters of the country.  Hill and valley
followed valley and hill; the little green and stony cattle-tracks wandered in and out of one
another, split into three or four, died away in marshy hollows, and began again sporadically
on hillsides or at the borders of a wood.

There was no direct road to Cheylard, and it was no easy affair to make a passage in this uneven
country and through this intermittent labyrinth of tracks.  It must have been about four when
I struck Sagnerousse, and went on my way rejoicing in a sure point of departure.  Two hours
afterwards, the dusk rapidly falling, in a lull of the wind, I issued from a fir-wood where
I had long been wandering, and found, not the looked-for village, but another marish bottom
among rough-and-tumble hills.  For some time past I had heard the ringing of cattle-bells ahead;
and now, as I came out of the skirts of the wood, I saw near upon a dozen cows and perhaps
as many more black figures, which I conjectured to be children, although the mist had almost
unrecognisably exaggerated their forms.  These were all silently following each other round
and round in a circle, now taking hands, now breaking up with chains and reverences.  A dance
of children appeals to very innocent and lively thoughts; but, at nightfall on the marshes,
the thing was eerie and fantastic to behold.  Even I, who am well enough read in Herbert Spencer,
felt a sort of silence fall for an instant on my mind.  The next, I was pricking Modestine
forward, and guiding her like an unruly ship through the open.  In a path, she went doggedly
ahead of her own accord, as before a fair wind; but once on the turf or among heather, and
the brute became demented.  The tendency of lost travellers to go round in a circle was developed
in her to the degree of passion, and it took all the steering I had in me to keep even a decently
straight course through a single field.

