CHAPTER XXXI.

                        THE BURIED CITY OF POMPEII

They pronounce it Pom-pay-e.  I always had an idea that you went down into Pompeii with torches,
by the way of damp, dark stairways, just as you do in silver mines, and traversed gloomy tunnels
with lava overhead and something on either hand like dilapidated prisons gouged out of the
solid earth, that faintly resembled houses.  But you do nothing the kind. Fully one-half of
the buried city, perhaps, is completely exhumed and thrown open freely to the light of day;
and there stand the long rows of solidly-built brick houses (roofless) just as they stood eighteen
hundred years ago, hot with the flaming sun; and there lie their floors, clean-swept, and not
a bright fragment tarnished or waiting of the labored mosaics that pictured them with the beasts,
and birds, and flowers which we copy in perishable carpets to-day; and here are the Venuses,
and Bacchuses, and Adonises, making love and getting drunk in many-hued frescoes on the walls
of saloon and bed-chamber; and there are the narrow streets and narrower sidewalks, paved with
flags of good hard lava, the one deeply rutted with the chariot-wheels, and the other with
the passing feet of the Pompeiians of by-gone centuries; and there are the bake-shops, the
temples, the halls of justice, the baths, the theatres--all clean-scraped and neat, and suggesting
nothing of the nature of a silver mine away down in the bowels of the earth.  The broken pillars
lying about, the doorless doorways and the crumbled tops of the wilderness of walls, were wonderfully
suggestive of the "burnt district" in one of our cities, and if there had been any charred
timbers, shattered windows, heaps of debris, and general blackness and smokiness about the
place, the resemblance would have been perfect.  But no--the sun shines as brightly down on
old Pompeii to-day as it did when Christ was born in Bethlehem, and its streets are cleaner
a hundred times than ever Pompeiian saw them in her prime.  I know whereof I speak--for in
the great, chief thoroughfares (Merchant street and the Street of Fortune) have I not seen
with my own eyes how for two hundred years at least the pavements were not repaired!--how ruts
five and even ten inches deep were worn into the thick flagstones by the chariot-wheels of
generations of swindled tax-payers?  And do I not know by these signs that Street Commissioners
of Pompeii never attended to their business, and that if they never mended the pavements they
never cleaned them?  And, besides, is it not the inborn nature of Street Commissioners to avoid
their duty whenever they get a chance?  I wish I knew the name of the last one that held office
in Pompeii so that I could give him a blast.  I speak with feeling on this subject, because
I caught my foot in one of those ruts, and the sadness that came over me when I saw the first
poor skeleton, with ashes and lava sticking to it, was tempered by the reflection that may
be that party was the Street Commissioner.

No--Pompeii is no longer a buried city.  It is a city of hundreds and hundreds of roofless
houses, and a tangled maze of streets where one could easily get lost, without a guide, and
have to sleep in some ghostly palace that had known no living tenant since that awful November
night of eighteen centuries ago.

We passed through the gate which faces the Mediterranean, (called the "Marine Gate,") and by
the rusty, broken image of Minerva, still keeping tireless watch and ward over the possessions
it was powerless to save, and went up a long street and stood in the broad court of the Forum
of Justice.  The floor was level and clean, and up and down either side was a noble colonnade
of broken pillars, with their beautiful Ionic and Corinthian columns scattered about them.
At the upper end were the vacant seats of the Judges, and behind them we descended into a dungeon
where the ashes and cinders had found two prisoners chained on that memorable November night,
and tortured them to death.  How they must have tugged at the pitiless fetters as the fierce
fires surged around them!

Then we lounged through many and many a sumptuous private mansion which we could not have entered
without a formal invitation in incomprehensible Latin, in the olden time, when the owners lived
there--and we probably wouldn't have got it.  These people built their houses a good deal alike.
The floors were laid in fanciful figures wrought in mosaics of many-colored marbles.  At the
threshold your eyes fall upon a Latin sentence of welcome, sometimes, or a picture of a dog,
with the legend "Beware of the Dog," and sometimes a picture of a bear or a faun with no inscription
at all.  Then you enter a sort of vestibule, where they used to keep the hat-rack, I suppose;
next a room with a large marble basin in the midst and the pipes of a fountain; on either side
are bedrooms; beyond the fountain is a reception-room, then a little garden, dining-room, and
so forth and so on.  The floors were all mosaic, the walls were stuccoed, or frescoed, or ornamented
with bas-reliefs, and here and there were statues, large and small, and little fish-pools,
and cascades of sparkling water that sprang from secret places in the colonnade of handsome
pillars that surrounded the court, and kept the flower-beds fresh and the air cool.  Those
Pompeiians were very luxurious in their tastes and habits. These facts prove how much greater the
crops of the Slave States would be, if their farms (including cotton) were cultivated by free
labor. It is also thus demonstrated how completely the fertile lands of the South are exhausted
and reduced in value by slave culture.
  They were well up in art.  From the creation of these works of the
first, clear up to the eleventh century, art seems hardly to have existed at all--at least
no remnants of it are left--and it was curious to see how far (in some things, at any rate,)
these old time pagans excelled the remote generations of masters that came after them. The
pride of the world in sculptures seem to be the Laocoon and the Dying Gladiator, in Rome. 
They are as old as Pompeii, were dug from the earth like Pompeii; but their exact age or who
made them can only be conjectured.  But worn, and cracked, without a history, and with the
blemishing stains of numberless centuries upon them, they still mutely mock at all efforts
to rival their perfections.

It was a quaint and curious pastime, wandering through this old silent city of the dead--lounging
through utterly deserted streets where thousands and thousands of human beings once bought
and sold, and walked and rode, and made the place resound with the noise and confusion of traffic
and pleasure.  They were not lazy.  They hurried in those days. We had evidence of that.  There
was a temple on one corner, and it was a shorter cut to go between the columns of that temple
from one street to the other than to go around--and behold that pathway had been worn deep
into the heavy flagstone floor of the building by generations of time-saving feet!  They would
not go around when it was quicker to go through.  We do that way in our cities.

Every where, you see things that make you wonder how old these old houses were before the night
of destruction came--things, too, which bring back those long dead inhabitants and place the
living before your eyes.  For instance: The steps (two feet thick--lava blocks) that lead up
out of the school, and the same kind of steps that lead up into the dress circle of the principal
theatre, are almost worn through!  For ages the boys hurried out of that school, and for ages
their parents hurried into that theatre, and the nervous feet that have been dust and ashes
for eighteen centuries have left their record for us to read to-day.  I imagined I could see
crowds of gentlemen and ladies thronging into the theatre, with tickets for secured seats in
their hands, and on the wall, I read the imaginary placard, in infamous grammar, "POSITIVELY
NO FREE LIST, EXCEPT MEMBERS OF THE PRESS!"  Hanging about the doorway (I fancied,) were slouchy
Pompeiian street-boys uttering slang and profanity, and keeping a wary eye out for checks.
I entered the theatre, and sat down in one of the long rows of stone benches in the dress circle,
and looked at the place for the orchestra, and the ruined stage, and around at the wide sweep
of empty boxes, and thought to myself, "This house won't pay."  I tried to imagine the music
in full blast, the leader of the orchestra beating time, and the "versatile" So-and-So (who
had "just returned from a most successful tour in the provinces to play his last and farewell
engagement of positively six nights only, in Pompeii, previous to his departure for Herculaneum,")
charging around the stage and piling the agony mountains high--but I could not do it with such
a "house" as that; those empty benches tied my fancy down to dull reality.  I said, these people
that ought to be here have been dead, and still, and moldering to dust for ages and ages, and
will never care for the trifles and follies of life any more for ever--"Owing to circumstances,
etc., etc., there will not be any performance to-night."  Close down the curtain.  Put out
the lights.

And so I turned away and went through shop after shop and store after store, far down the long
street of the merchants, and called for the wares of Rome and the East, but the tradesmen were
gone, the marts were silent, and nothing was left but the broken jars all set in cement of
cinders and ashes: the wine and the oil that once had filled them were gone with their owners.

In a bake-shop was a mill for grinding the grain, and the furnaces for baking the bread: and
they say that here, in the same furnaces, the exhumers of Pompeii found nice, well baked loaves
which the baker had not found time to remove from the ovens the last time he left his shop,
because circumstances compelled him to leave in such a hurry.

In one house (the only building in Pompeii which no woman is now allowed to enter,) were the
small rooms and short beds of solid masonry, just as they were in the old times, and on the
walls were pictures which looked almost as fresh as if they were painted yesterday, but which
no pen could have the hardihood to describe; and here and there were Latin inscriptions--obscene
scintillations of wit, scratched by hands that possibly were uplifted to Heaven for succor
in the midst of a driving storm of fire before the night was done.

In one of the principal streets was a ponderous stone tank, and a water-spout that supplied
it, and where the tired, heated toilers from the Campagna used to rest their right hands when
they bent over to put their lips to the spout, the thick stone was worn down to a broad groove
an inch or two deep.  Think of the countless thousands of hands that had pressed that spot
in the ages that are gone, to so reduce a stone that is as hard as iron!

They had a great public bulletin board in Pompeii--a place where announcements for gladiatorial
combats, elections, and such things, were posted--not on perishable paper, but carved in enduring
stone.  One lady, who, I take it, was rich and well brought up, advertised a dwelling or so
to rent, with baths and all the modern improvements, and several hundred shops, stipulating
that the dwellings should not be put to immoral purposes.  You can find out who lived in many
a house in Pompeii by the carved stone door-plates affixed to them: and in the same way you
can tell who they were that occupy the tombs.  Every where around are things that reveal to
you something of the customs and history of this forgotten people.  But what would a volcano
leave of an American city, if it once rained its cinders on it?  Hardly a sign or a symbol
to tell its story.

In one of these long Pompeiian halls the skeleton of a man was found, with ten pieces of gold
in one hand and a large key in the other.  He had seized his money and started toward the door,
but the fiery tempest caught him at the very threshold, and he sank down and died.  One more
minute of precious time would have saved him.  I saw the skeletons of a man, a woman, and two
young girls.  The woman had her hands spread wide apart, as if in mortal terror, and I imagined
I could still trace upon her shapeless face something of the expression of wild despair that
distorted it when the heavens rained fire in these streets, so many ages ago. Chapter VIII--Sculpture-in-Motion,
being a continuation of the argument of chapter two. The Photoplay of Action. Like the Action
Film, this aspect of composition is much better understood by the commercial people than some
other sides of the art. Some of the best of the William S. Hart productions show appreciation of
this quality by the director, the photographer, and the public. Not only is the man but the
horse allowed to be moving bronze, and not mere cowboy pasteboard.

Many of the pictures of Charles Ray make the hero quite a bronze-looking sculpturesque person,
despite his yokel raiment.

Chapter IX--Painting-in-Motion, being a continuation on a higher terrace of chapter three,
The Intimate Photoplay.

We never read of Pompeii but we think of that soldier; we can not write of Pompeii without
the natural impulse to grant to him the mention he so well deserves.  Let us remember that
he was a soldier--not a policeman --and so, praise him.  Being a soldier, he staid,--because
the warrior instinct forbade him to fly.  Had he been a policeman he would have staid, also--because
he would have been asleep.

There are not half a dozen flights of stairs in Pompeii, and no other evidences that the houses
were more than one story high.  The people did not live in the clouds, as do the Venetians,
the Genoese and Neapolitans of to-day.

We came out from under the solemn mysteries of this city of the Venerable Past--this city which
perished, with all its old ways and its quaint old fashions about it, remote centuries ago,
when the Disciples were preaching the new religion, which is as old as the hills to us now--and
went dreaming among the trees that grow over acres and acres of its still buried streets and
squares, till a shrill whistle and the cry of "All aboard--last train for Naples!"  woke me
up and reminded me that I belonged in the nineteenth century, and was not a dusty mummy, caked
with ashes and cinders, eighteen hundred years old.  The transition was startling.  The idea
of a railroad train actually running to old dead Pompeii, and whistling irreverently, and calling
for passengers in the most bustling and business-like way, was as strange a thing as one could
imagine, and as unpoetical and disagreeable as it was strange.

Compare the cheerful life and the sunshine of this day with the horrors the younger Pliny saw
here, the 9th of November, A.D. 79, when he was so bravely striving to remove his mother out
of reach of harm, while she begged him, with all a mother's unselfishness, to leave her to
perish and save himself.

     'By this time the murky darkness had so increased that one might
     have believed himself abroad in a black and moonless night, or in a
     chamber where all the lights had been extinguished.  On every hand
     was heard the complaints of women, the wailing of children, and the
     cries of men.  One called his father, another his son, and another
     his wife, and only by their voices could they know each other.  Many
     in their despair begged that death would come and end their
     distress.

     "Some implored the gods to succor them, and some believed that this
     night was the last, the eternal night which should engulf the
     universe!

     "Even so it seemed to me--and I consoled myself for the coming death
     with the reflection: BEHOLD, THE WORLD IS PASSING AWAY!"

                              * * * * * * * *

After browsing among the stately ruins of Rome, of Baiae, of Pompeii, and after glancing down
the long marble ranks of battered and nameless imperial heads that stretch down the corridors
of the Vatican, one thing strikes me with a force it never had before: the unsubstantial, unlasting
character of fame.  Men lived long lives, in the olden time, and struggled feverishly through
them, toiling like slaves, in oratory, in generalship, or in literature, and then laid them
down and died, happy in the possession of an enduring history and a deathless name.  Well,
twenty little centuries flutter away, and what is left of these things?  A crazy inscription
on a block of stone, which snuffy antiquaries bother over and tangle up and make nothing out
of but a bare name (which they spell wrong)--no history, no tradition, no poetry--nothing that
can give it even a passing interest.  What may be left of General Grant's great name forty
centuries hence?  This--in the Encyclopedia for A. D. 5868, possibly:

     "URIAH S. (or Z.) GRAUNT--popular poet of ancient times in the Aztec
     provinces of the United States of British America.  Some authors say
     flourished about A. D. 742; but the learned Ah-ah Foo-foo states
     that he was a cotemporary of Scharkspyre, the English poet, and
     flourished about A. D. 1328, some three centuries after the Trojan
     war instead of before it.  He wrote 'Rock me to Sleep, Mother.'"

These thoughts sadden me.  I will to bed.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Home, again!  For the first time, in many weeks, the ship's entire family met and shook hands
on the quarter-deck.  They had gathered from many points of the compass and from many lands,
but not one was missing; there was no tale of sickness or death among the flock to dampen the
pleasure of the reunion.  Once more there was a full audience on deck to listen to the sailors'
chorus as they got the anchor up, and to wave an adieu to the land as we sped away from Naples.
The seats were full at dinner again, the domino parties were complete, and the life and bustle
on the upper deck in the fine moonlight at night was like old times--old times that had been
gone weeks only, but yet they were weeks so crowded with incident, adventure and excitement,
that they seemed almost like years. There was no lack of cheerfulness on board the Quaker City.
For once, her title was a misnomer.

At seven in the evening, with the western horizon all golden from the sunken sun, and specked
with distant ships, the full moon sailing high over head, the dark blue of the sea under foot,
and a strange sort of twilight affected by all these different lights and colors around us
and about us, we sighted superb Stromboli.  With what majesty the monarch held his lonely state
above the level sea!  Distance clothed him in a purple gloom, and added a veil of shimmering
mist that so softened his rugged features that we seemed to see him through a web of silver
gauze. His torch was out; his fires were smoldering; a tall column of smoke that rose up and
lost itself in the growing moonlight was all the sign he gave that he was a living Autocrat
of the Sea and not the spectre of a dead one.

At two in the morning we swept through the Straits of Messina, and so bright was the moonlight
that Italy on the one hand and Sicily on the other seemed almost as distinctly visible as though
we looked at them from the middle of a street we were traversing.  The city of Messina, milk-white,
and starred and spangled all over with gaslights, was a fairy spectacle.  A great party of
us were on deck smoking and making a noise, and waiting to see famous Scylla and Charybdis.
And presently the Oracle stepped out with his eternal spy-glass and squared himself on the
deck like another Colossus of Rhodes.  It was a surprise to see him abroad at such an hour.
Nobody supposed he cared anything about an old fable like that of Scylla and Charybdis.  One
of the boys said:

"Hello, doctor, what are you doing up here at this time of night?--What do you want to see
this place for?"

"What do I want to see this place for?  Young man, little do you know me, or you wouldn't ask
such a question.  I wish to see all the places that's mentioned in the Bible."

"Stuff--this place isn't mentioned in the Bible."

"It ain't mentioned in the Bible!--this place ain't--well now, what place is this, since you
know so much about it?"

"Why it's Scylla and Charybdis."

"Scylla and Cha--confound it, I thought it was Sodom and Gomorrah!"

And he closed up his glass and went below.  The above is the ship story. Its plausibility is
marred a little by the fact that the Oracle was not a biblical student, and did not spend much
of his time instructing himself about Scriptural localities.--They say the Oracle complains,
in this hot weather, lately, that the only beverage in the ship that is passable, is the butter.
He did not mean butter, of course, but inasmuch as that article remains in a melted state now
since we are out of ice, it is fair to give him the credit of getting one long word in the
right place, anyhow, for once in his life.  He said, in Rome, that the Pope was a noble-looking
old man, but he never did think much of his Iliad.

We spent one pleasant day skirting along the Isles of Greece.  They are very mountainous. 
Their prevailing tints are gray and brown, approaching to red.  Little white villages surrounded
by trees, nestle in the valleys or roost upon the lofty perpendicular sea-walls.

We had one fine sunset--a rich carmine flush that suffused the western sky and cast a ruddy
glow far over the sea.--Fine sunsets seem to be rare in this part of the world--or at least,
striking ones.  They are soft, sensuous, lovely--they are exquisite refined, effeminate, but
we have seen no sunsets here yet like the gorgeous conflagrations that flame in the track of
the sinking sun in our high northern latitudes.

But what were sunsets to us, with the wild excitement upon us of approaching the most renowned
of cities!  What cared we for outward visions, when Agamemnon, Achilles, and a thousand other
heroes of the great Past were marching in ghostly procession through our fancies?  What were
sunsets to us, who were about to live and breathe and walk in actual Athens; yea, and go far
down into the dead centuries and bid in person for the slaves, Diogenes and Plato, in the public
market-place, or gossip with the neighbors about the siege of Troy or the splendid deeds of
Marathon?  We scorned to consider sunsets.

We arrived, and entered the ancient harbor of the Piraeus at last.  We dropped anchor within
half a mile of the village.  Away off, across the undulating Plain of Attica, could be seen
a little square-topped hill with a something on it, which our glasses soon discovered to be
the ruined edifices of the citadel of the Athenians, and most prominent among them loomed the
venerable Parthenon.  So exquisitely clear and pure is this wonderful atmosphere that every
column of the noble structure was discernible through the telescope, and even the smaller ruins
about it assumed some semblance of shape.  This at a distance of five or six miles.  In the
valley, near the Acropolis, (the square-topped hill before spoken of,) Athens itself could
be vaguely made out with an ordinary lorgnette.  Every body was anxious to get ashore and visit
these classic localities as quickly as possible.  No land we had yet seen had aroused such
universal interest among the passengers.

But bad news came.  The commandant of the Piraeus came in his boat, and said we must either
depart or else get outside the harbor and remain imprisoned in our ship, under rigid quarantine,
for eleven days!  So we took up the anchor and moved outside, to lie a dozen hours or so, taking
in supplies, and then sail for Constantinople.  It was the bitterest disappointment we had
yet experienced.  To lie a whole day in sight of the Acropolis, and yet be obliged to go away
without visiting Athens! Disappointment was hardly a strong enough word to describe the circumstances.

All hands were on deck, all the afternoon, with books and maps and glasses, trying to determine
which "narrow rocky ridge" was the Areopagus, which sloping hill the Pnyx, which elevation
the Museum Hill, and so on.  And we got things confused.  Discussion became heated, and party
spirit ran high.  Church members were gazing with emotion upon a hill which they said was the
one St. Paul preached from, and another faction claimed that that hill was Hymettus, and another
that it was Pentelicon!  After all the trouble, we could be certain of only one thing--the
square-topped hill was the Acropolis, and the grand ruin that crowned it was the Parthenon,
whose picture we knew in infancy in the school books.

We inquired of every body who came near the ship, whether there were guards in the Piraeus,
whether they were strict, what the chances were of capture should any of us slip ashore, and
in case any of us made the venture and were caught, what would be probably done to us?  The
answers were discouraging: There was a strong guard or police force; the Piraeus was a small
town, and any stranger seen in it would surely attract attention--capture would be certain.
The commandant said the punishment would be "heavy;" when asked "how heavy?" he said it would
be "very severe"--that was all we could get out of him.

