 The third class was of those who had escaped one mental malady but not another;
who had conquered lust, let us say, but not ambition; who disregarded death, but dreaded pain,
This third class, adds Seneca, is by no means to be despised. 

The others, now, in turn tried to win her confidence. The plainsman and the Irishman she regarded
gravely, as she had looked at the banker, but without fear. The boy
won a little smile, but she still held back--hesitating--reluctant. It is perhaps these very paradoxes which account
for the puzzled fascination with which Stoicism affected the mind of antiquity, just as obscurity
in a poet may prove a surer passport to fame than more strictly poetical merits.

The root of Stoicism being a paradox, it is not surprising that the offshoots should be so
too. To say that "Virtue is the highest good" is a proposition to which every one who aspires
to the spiritual life must yield assent with his lips, even if he has not yet learned to believe
it in his heart. But alter it into "Virtue is the only good" and by that slight change it becomes
at once the teeming mother of paradoxes. By a paradox is meant that which runs counter to general
opinion. Now it is quite certain that men have regarded, do regard, and, we may safely add
will regard things as good which are not virtue. But if we grant this initial paradox, a great
many others will follow along with it--as for instance that "Virtue is sufficient of itself
for happiness". The fifth book of Cicero's Tusculan Disputations is an eloquent defense of
this thesis, in which the orator combats the suggestion that a good man is not happy when he
is being broken on the wheel.

Another glaring paradox of the Stoics is that "All faults are equal". They took their stand
upon a mathematical conception of rectitude. An angle must be either a right angle or not,
a line must be either straight or crooked, so an act must be either right or wrong. There is
no mean between the two and there are no degrees of either. To sin is to cross the line. When
once that has been done it makes no difference to the offense how far you go. Trespassing at
all is forbidden. This doctrine was defended by the Stoics on account of its bracing moral
effect as showing the heinousness of sin. Horace gives the judgment of the world in saying
that common sense and morality, to say nothing of utility, revolt against it.

Here are some other specimens of the Stoic paradoxes. "Every fool is mad". "Only the sage is
free and every fool is a slave". "The sage alone is wealthy". "Good men are always happy and
bad men always miserable". "All goods are equal". "No one is wiser or happier than another".
But may not one man we ask be more nearly wise or more nearly happy than another? "That may
be", the Stoics would reply, "but the man who is only one stade from Canopus is as much not
in Canopus as the man who is a hundred stades off; and the eight day old puppy is still as
blind as on the day of its birth; nor can a man who is near the surface of the sea breathe
any more than if he were full five hundred fathom down". 

At noon, when each was given his carefully measured portion from the canteen, Jefferson Worth,
before they could check him, wet his handkerchief with his share of the water and gave it to
the Seer to wipe the dust from the hot little face of the child. Epicurus maintained as staunchly as any Stoic that "No wise man is unhappy", and,
if he be not belied, went the length of declaring that the wise man, if put into the bull of
Phalaris would exclaim: "How delightful! How little I mind this!"

It is out of keeping with common sense to draw a hard and fast distinction between good and
bad. Yet this was what the Stoics did. They insisted on effecting here and now that separation
between the sheep and the goats, which Christ postponed to the Day of Judgment. Unfortunately,
when it came to practice, all were found to be goats, so that the division was a merely formal one.

The good man of the Stoics was variously known as 'the sage', or, 'the serious man', the latter
name being inherited from the Peripatetics. We used to hear it said among ourselves that a
person had become serious, when he or she had taken to religion. Another appellation which
the Stoics had for the sage was 'the urbane man', while the fool in contradistinction was called
'a boor'. Boorishness was defined as an inexperience of the customs and laws of the state.
By the state was meant, not Athens or Sparta, as would have been the case in a former age,
but the society of all rational beings into which the Stoics spiritualised the state. The sage
alone had the freedom of this city and the fool was therefore not only a boor, but an alien
or an exile. In this city, Justice was natural and not conventional, for the law by which it
was governed was the law of right reason. The law then was spiritualised by the Stoics, just
as the state was. It no longer meant the enactments of this or that community, but the mandates
of the eternal reason which ruled the world and which would prevail in the ideal state. Law
was defined as right reason commanding what was to be done and forbidding what was not to be
done. As such, it in no way differed from the impulse of the sage himself.

As a member of a state and by nature subject to law, man was essentially a social being. Between
all the wise there existed "unanimity," which was "a knowledge of the common good," because
their views of life were harmonious. Fools, on the other hand, whose views of life were discordant,
were enemies to one another and bent on mutual injury.

As a member of society the sage would play his part in public life. Theoretically this was
always true, and practically he would do so, wherever the actual constitution made any tolerable
approach to the ideal type. But, if the circumstances were such as to make it certain that
his embarking on politics would be of no service to his country, and only a source of danger
to himself, then he would refrain. The kind of constitution of which the Stoics most approved
was a mixed government containing democratic, aristocratic, and monarchical elements. Where
circumstances allowed the sage would act as legislator, and would educate mankind, one way
of doing which was by writing books which would prove of profit to the reader.

As a member of existing society the sage would marry and beget children, both for his own sake
and for that of his country, on behalf of which, if it were good, he would be ready to suffer
and die. Still he would look forward to a better time when, in Zeno's as in Plato's republic,
the wise would have women and children in common, when the elders would love all the rising
generation equally with parental fondness, and when marital jealousy would be no more.

As being essentially a social being, the sage was endowed not only with the graver political
virtues, but also with the graces of life. He was sociable, tactful and stimulating, using
conversation as a means for promoting good will and friendship; so far as might be, he was
all things to all men, which made him fascinating and charming, insinuating and even wily;
he know how to hit the point and to choose the right moment, yet with it all he was plain and
unostentatious and simple and unaffected; in particular he never delighted in irony much less
in sarcasm.

From the social characteristics of the sage we turn now to a side of his character which appears
eminently anti-social. One of his most highly vaunted characteristics was his self-sufficingness.
He was to be able to step out of a burning city, coming from the wreck not only of his fortunes,
but of his friends and family, and to declare with a smile that he has lost nothing. All that
he truly cared for was to be centered in himself. For the first time Texas Joe uncoiled the long
lash of his whip and his call "You, Buck!

Molly!" was punctuated by pistol-like cracks that sounded strangely in the death-like silence of
the sandy waste.

As they came within sight of the strange horse the poor beast staggered wearily to meet the wagon--the
broken strap of his halter swinging loosely from his low-hanging head.

"Look at the poor baste," said Pat. "'Tis near dead he is wid thirst." He leaped to the ground
and started toward the water barrel in the rear of the wagon.

"Hold on, Pat," said the colorless voice of Jefferson Worth. And his words were followed by the
report of Texas Joe's forty-five.

The Irishman turned to see the strange horse lying dead on the sand. "Fwhat the hell--" he
demanded hotly, but Texas was eyeing him coolly, and something checked the anger of the Irishman.

"You
don't seem to sabe," drawled the man of the desert, replacing the empty shell in his gun.
"There ain't hardly enough water to carry us through now, an' we
may have to pick up this other outfit."

No one spoke as Pat climbed heavily back to his seat.

For two miles the tracks of the strange horse were visible, then they were blotted out by the
sand that had filled them. "He made that much since the blow," was Texas' slow comment. "How
far we are from where he started is all guess."

As they pushed on, all eyes searched the country eagerly and before long they found the spot
for which they looked. A light spring wagon with a piece of a halter strap tied to one of
the wheels was more than half-buried by the sand in the lee of a high drift. There was a small
water keg, empty, with its seams already beginning to open in the fierce heat of the sun, a "grub-box,"
some bedding and part of a bale of hay-nothing more.

Jefferson Worth, Pat and the boy attempted to dig in the steep side of the drift that rose above
the half-buried outfit, but at their every movement tons of the dry sand came sliding down
upon them. "It ain't no use, Mr. Worth," said Texas, as the banker straightened up, baffled
in his effort. "You will never know what's buried in there until God Almighty uncovers it."

Then
the man of the desert and plains read the story of the tragedy as though he had been an eye witness.
"They was travelin' light an' counted on makin' good time. They must have counted, too, on,
findin' water in the hole." He kicked the empty keg. "Their supply
give out an' then that sand-storm caught 'em and the horses broke
loose. Of course they would go to hunt their stock, not darin' to
be left afoot and without water, an' hits a thousand to one they never
got back to the outfit. We're takin' too many chances ourselves to
lose much time and I don't reckon there's any use, but we'd better
look around maybe."

He directed the little party to scatter and to
keep on the high ground so that they would not lose sight of each
other. Until well on in the afternoon they searched the vicinity,
but with no reward, while the hot sun, the dry burning waste and the
glaring sands of the desert warned them that every hour's delay might
mean their own death. When they returned at last to the wagon, called
in by Texas, no one spoke. He would not, however, altogether eschew banquets. Indeed, the Stoics recognized
a virtue under the name of 'conviviality,' which consisted in the proper conduct of them. It
was said of Chrysippus that his demeanor was always quiet, even if his gait were unsteady,
so that his housekeeper declared that only his legs were drunk.

There were pleasantries even within the school on this subject of infallibility of the sage.
Aristo of Chios, while seceding on some other matters, held fast to the dogma that the sage
never opined. Whereupon Persaeus played a trick upon him. He made one of two twin brothers
deposit a sum of money with him and the other call to reclaim it. The success of the trick
however only went to establish that Aristo was not the sage, an admission which each of the
Stoics seems to have been ready enough to make on his own part, as the responsibilities of
the position were so fatiguing.

There remains one more leading characteristic of the sage, the most striking of them all, and
the most important from the ethical point of view. This was his innocence or harmlessness.
He would not harm others and was not to be harmed by them. For the Stoics believed with Socrates
that it was not permissible by the divine law for a better man to be harmed by a worse. You
could not harm the sage any more than you could harm the sunlight; he was in our world, but
not of it. There was no possibility of evil for him, save in his own will, and that you could
not touch. And as the sage was beyond harm, so also was he above insult. Men might disgrace
themselves by their insolent attitude towards his mild majesty, but it was not in their power
to disgrace him.

As the Stoics had their analogue to the tenet of final assurance, so had they also to that
of sudden conversion. They held that a man might become a sage without being at first aware
of it. The abruptness of the transition from folly to wisdom was in keeping with their principle
that there was no medium between the two, but it was naturally a point which attracted the
strictures of their opponents. That a man should be at one moment stupid and ignorant and unjust
and intemperate, a slave and poor, and destitute, at the next a king, rich, and prosperous,
temperate, and just, secure in his judgements and exempt from error, was a transformation,
they declared, which smacked more of the fairy tales of the nursery than of the doctrines of
a sober philosophy.

PHYSIC

We have now before us the main facts with regard to the Stoic view of man's nature, but we
have yet to see in what setting they were put. What was the Stoic outlook upon the universe?
The answer to this question is supplied by their Physic.

There were, according to the Stoics, two first principles of all things, the active and the
passive. The passive was that unqualified being which is known as Matter. The active was the
Logos, or reason in it, which is God. This, it was held, eternally pervades matter and creates
all things. This dogma, laid down by Zeno, was repeated after him by the subsequent heads of
the school.

There were then two first principles, but there were not two causes of things. The active principle
alone was cause, the other was mere material for it to work on--inert, senseless, destitute
in itself of all shape and qualities, but ready to assume any qualities or shape.

Matter was defined as that out of which anything is produced. The Prime Matter, or unqualified
being, was eternal and did not admit of increase or decrease, but only of change. It was the
substance or being of all things that are.

The Stoics, it will be observed, used the term "matter" with the same confusing ambiguity with
which we use it ourselves, now for sensible objects which have shape and other qualities, now
for the abstract conception of matter, which is devoid of all qualities.

Both these first principles, it must be understood, were conceived of as bodies, though without
form, the one everywhere interpenetrating the other. To say that the passive principle, or
matter, is a body comes easy to us, because of the familiar confusion adverted to above. But
how could the active principle, or God, be conceived of as a body? The answer to this question
may sound paradoxical. It is because God is a spirit. A spirit in its original sense meant
air in motion. Now the active principle was not air, but it was something which bore an analogy
to it--namely aether. Aether in motion might be called a 'spirit' as well as air in motion.
It was in this sense that Chrysippus defined the thing that is, to be a spirit moving itself
into and out of itself, or spirit moving itself to and fro.

From the two first principles which are ungenerated and indestructible must be distinguished
the four elements which, though ultimate for us, yet were produced in the beginning by God
and are destined some day to be reabsorbed into the divine nature. These with the Stoics were
the same which had been accepted since Empedocles--namely earth, air, fire and water. The elements,
like the two first principles were bodies; unlike them, they were declared to have shape as
well as extension.

An element was defined as that out of which things at first come into being and into which
they are at last resolved. In this relation did the four elements stand to all the compound
bodies which the universe contained. The terms earth, air, fire and water had to be taken in
a wide sense: earth meaning all that was of the nature of earth, air all that was of the nature
of air and so on. Thus, in the human frame, the bones and sinews pertained to earth.

The four qualities of matter--hot, cold, moist and dry--were indicative of the presence of
the four elements. Fire was the source of heat, air of cold, water of moisture, and earth of
dryness. Between them, the four elements made up the unqualified being called Matter. All animals
and other compound natures on earth had in them representatives of the four great physical
constituents of the universe, but the moon, according to Chrysippus, consisted only of fire
and air, while the sun was pure fire.

While all compound bodies were resolvable into the four elements, there were important differences
among the elements, themselves. Two of them, fire and air, were light; the other two, water
and earth, were heavy. By 'light' was meant that which tends away from its own centre, by 'heavy,'
that which, tends towards it. The two light elements stood to the two heavy ones in much the
same relation as the active to the passive principle generally. But further, fire had such
a primary as entitles it, if the definition of element were pressed, to be considered alone
worthy of the name. For the three other elements arose out of it and were to be again resolved
into it.

We should obtain a wholly wrong impression of what Bishop Berkeley calls 'the philosophy of
fire' if we set before our minds in this connection, the raging element whose strength is in
destruction. Let us rather picture to ourselves as the type of fire the benign and beatific
solar heat, the quickener and fosterer of all terrestrial life. For according to Zeno, there
were two kinds of fire, the one destructive, the other what we may call 'constructive,' and
which he called 'artistic'. This latter kind of fire, which was known as aether, was the substance
of the heavenly bodies, as it was also of the soul of animals and of the 'nature' of plants.
Chrysippus, following Heraclitus, taught that the elements passed into one another by a process
of condensation and rarefaction. Fire first became solidified into air, then air into water
and lastly water into earth. The process of dissolution took place in the reverse order, earth
being rarefied into water, water into air, and air into fire. It is allowable to see in this
old world doctrine an anticipation of the modern idea of different states of matter--the solid,
the liquid, and the gaseous, with a fourth beyond the gaseous which science can still only
guess at, and in which matter seems almost to merge into spirit.

Each of the four elements had its own abode in the universe. Outermost of all was the ethereal
'fire' which was divided into two spheres: first that of the fixed stars and next that of the
planets. Below this lay the sphere of 'air', below this again that of 'water', and lowest or
in other words, most central of all was the sphere of 'earth', the solid foundation of the
whole structure. Water might be said to be above earth because nowhere was there water to be
found without earth beneath it, but the surface of water was always equidistant from the centre,
whereas earth had prominences which rose above water.

When we say that the Stoics regarded the universe as a plenum, the reader must understand by
'the universe' the Cosmos or ordered whole. Within this there was no emptiness owing to the
pressure of the celestial upon the terrestrial sphere. But outside of this lay the infinite
void without beginning, middle, or end. This occupied a very ambiguous position In their scheme.
It was not being, for being was confined to body and yet it was there. It was in fact nothing,
and that was why it was infinite. For as nothing cannot be bound to any thing, so neither can
there be any bound to nothing. But while bodiless itself, it had the capacity to contain body,
a fact which enabled it, despite its non-entity, to serve, as we shall see, a useful purpose.

Did the Stoics then regard the universe as finite or as infinite? In
answering this question we must distinguish our terms, as they did.
The All, they said, was infinite, but the Whole was finite. For the
'All' was the cosmos and the void, whereas the 'Whole' was the cosmos
only. This distinction we may suppose to have originated with the
later members of the school. For Appolodorus noted the ambiguity of
the word 'All' as meaning,
   (1) the cosmos only,
   (2) cosmos + void

If then by the term "universe" we understand the cosmos, or ordered whole, we must say that
the Stoics regarded the universe as finite. All being and all body, which was the same thing
with being, had necessarily bounds, it was only not being, which was boundless.

Another distinction, due this time to Chrysippus himself, which the Stoics found it convenient
to draw, was between the three words 'void,' 'place' and 'space'. Void was defined as 'the
absence of body', place was that which was occupied by body, the term 'space' was reserved
for that which was partly occupied and partly unoccupied. As there was no corner of the cosmos
unfilled by body, space, it will be seen, was another name for the All. Place was compared
to a vessel that was full, void to one that was empty, and space to the vast wine-cask, such
as that in which Diogenes made his home, which was kept partly fully, but in which there was
always room for more. The last comparison must of course not be pressed. For if space be a
cask, it is one without top, bottom or sides.

But while the Stoics regarded our universe as an island of being in an ocean of void, they
did not admit the possibility that other such islands might exist beyond our ken. The spectacle
of the starry heavens, which presented itself nightly to their gaze in all the brilliancy of
a southern sky--that was all there was of being, beyond that lay nothingness. Democritus or
the Epicureans might dream of other worlds, but the Stoics contended for the unity of the cosmos
as staunchly as the Mahometans for the unity of God, for with them the cosmos was God.

In shape they conceived of it as spherical, on the ground that the sphere was the perfect figure
and was also the best adapted for motion. Not that the universe as a whole moved. The earth
lay in its centre, spherical and motionless, and round it coursed the sun, moon, and planets,
fixed each in its respective sphere as in so many concentric rings, while the outermost ring
of all, which contained the fixed stars, wheeled round the rest with an inconceivable velocity.

The tendency of all things in the universe to the centre kept the earth fixed in the middle
as being subject to an equal pressure on every side. The same cause also, according to Zeno,
kept the universe itself at rest in the void. But in an infinite void, it could make no difference
whether the whole were at rest or in motion. It may have been a desire to escape the notion
of a migratory whole which led Zeno to broach the curious doctrine that the universe has no
weight, as being composed of elements whereof two are heavy and two are light. Air and fire
did indeed tend to the centre like everything else in the cosmos, but not till they had reached
their natural home. Till then they were of an upward-growing nature. It appears then that the
upward and downward tendencies of the elements were held to neutralise one another and to leave
the universe devoid of weight.

The universe was the only thing which was perfect in itself, the one thing which was an end
in itself. All other things were perfect indeed as parts, when considered with reference to
the whole, but were none of them ends in themselves, unless man could be deemed so who was
born to contemplate the universe and imitate its perfections. Thus, then, did the Stoics envisage
the universe on its physical side--as one, finite, fixed in space, but revolving round its
own centre, earth, beautiful beyond all things, and perfect as a whole.

But it was impossible for this order and beauty to exist without mind. The universe was pervaded
by intelligence as man's body is pervaded by his soul. But as the human soul though everywhere
present in the body is not present everywhere in the same degree, so it was with the world-soul.
The human soul presents itself not only as intellect, but also in the lower manifestations
of sense, growth, and cohesion. It is the soul which is the cause of the plant life, which
displays itself more particularly in the nails and hair; it is the soul also which causes cohesion
among the parts of the solid substances such as bones and sinews, that make up our frame. In
the same way the world-soul displayed itself in rational beings as intellect, in the lower
animals as mere souls, in plants as nature or growth, and in inorganic substances as 'holding'
or cohesion. To this lowest stage add change, and you have growth or plant nature; super-add
to this phantasy and impulse and you rise to the soul of irrational animals; at a yet higher
stage you reach the rational and discursive intellect, which is peculiar to man among mortal
natures.

