+970+. Such a conception has been attributed to the American Redmen,[1774] but on insufficient
grounds. The most careful recent investigations of the religious ideas of the Creeks, the Lenâpé,
the Pawnees, and the Californian Shasta (four typical communities) fail to discover anything
that can be called a real dualistic conception.[1775] Dorsey mentions a Pawnee myth of the
introduction of death into the world by a member of the heavenly council of gods who felt himself
slighted; but this isolated story does not prove the existence of a general dualistic scheme--the
act in question has parallels in savage systems that recognize various unfriendly Powers.[1776]
The reports we have of two definite morally antagonistic deities in Redmen tribes resolve themselves
on examination into misconceptions or exaggerations on the part of the reporters; or, so far
as the antagonism really exists, it is due to Christian influence. The Iroquois dualistic system
as described by Chief Cusic (in 1825)--two brothers, Good Mind and Bad Mind, the former the
creator of all things good, the latter the creator of all things bad--appears in the version
of Brébeuf (in 1636) as a simple nature myth, the two deities in question being somewhat more
definite forms of the friendly and unfriendly spirits met with in all lower communities.[1777]
In like manner Winslow's two opposed Powers of the New England Algonkins turn out not to be
morally antagonistic to each other, in fact, according to Brinton, not antagonistic at all.[1778]
These facts warn us to treat with caution the vague statements of early travelers respecting
dualistic views supposed to be held by tribes in North America and South America.[1779]

+971+. In West Africa the Ashanti embody the sources of physical misfortune in several deities,
who are malignant but do not stand in opposition to the friendly gods. A preliminary step to
the conception of a god of misfortunes is the assignment of a sort of headship to one of a
mass of unfriendly or hurtful spirits--such a crude organization is natural in a community
in which there is a fairly developed form of social organization, and the head spirit easily
grows into a god. A simple headship over hurtful spirits appears to be found in the Ainu system,
though this latter is in general not well developed.[1780]

+972+. A definite antagonism of good and bad Powers is found in the religion of the non-Aryan
Khonds of Orissa: the earth-goddess Tari, the creature but the opponent of the sun-god Bella
Pennu, introduced sin and death into the world and contested (and, according to one native
account, still contests) with her creator the control of life. This explanation of the origin
of death is a higher form of stories that occur abundantly in savage lore, with the important
difference that in these death comes by accident, but here by malicious purpose. It is not
clear whether or not the characters of Tari and Bella Pennu are conceived of ethically. The
weapons (comets, winds, mountains) employed by the two deities indicate that the basis of the
representation is a nature myth. Advanced eschatological thought appears in the opinion, held
by some natives, that the good god was victorious in the contest.[1781]

+973+. In the great ancient religions, with the exception of Zoroastrianism, no dualistic scheme
appears. An Egyptian god may be angry, as, for example, Ra, who in a fit of resentment causes
men to be slain but soon repents; and Set, the enemy of Osiris, a nature god, seemed at one
time to be on the way to become an embodiment of evil, but the Egyptian cult rejected this
idea and Set gradually disappeared.[1782] The Babylonian cosmogonic myth, in which Tiamat is
the enemy of the gods of order, has no cultic significance; the great mass of demonic beings
was not organized into a kingdom of evil, and the Underworld deities, nature gods, while subject
to ordinary human passions, are not hostile to the gods of heaven and earth. The Hebrews adopted
the Babylonian cosmogonic myth,[1783] but it became a mere literary attachment to the conception
of the supreme god Yahweh, and was otherwise ineffective.

+974+. The same thing is true of certain cosmogonic myths of the Greeks, such as the war of
the Titans against Zeus and similar episodes. Ate and the Erinyes are embodiments of man's
own evil nature or represent the punishment that overtakes guilt, but they do not represent
a formal opposition to goodness nor are they organized into a definite body.[1784] The Roman
Furies are practically identical in function with the Erinyes. In the old Teutonic religion
the only figure who approaches essential badness is Loki; but he, though at times malignant
and treacherous (as a human chieftain might be), remains a recognized member of the assembly
of gods. As a nature god he may represent the elements of darkness and unhappiness in life,
just as the various evil spirits in the world do, but he never approaches the position of an
independent creator of evil.[1785] The Celtic deities Llew and Dylan are said to stand over
against each other and to represent good and bad tendencies and elements of life; but they
are not very distinct and are probably nothing more than somewhat developed local deities.[1786]
In the Chinese and Japanese cults there is no indication of a conflict; evil spirits there
are in abundance, but no cosmic antagonism.

+975+. In India the cosmogonic myths are to be interpreted in the same way as those mentioned
above. Soma and Indra, as slayers of the demon Vritya, represent order as against disorder,
but Vritya never had cultic significance; he appears only as a bodily demonstration of the
power of the great gods. The asuras are not essentially different from the harmful spirits
of savages, though it is true that they come into conflict with the friendly gods. Rahu, who
causes eclipses by swallowing the sun, is only a nature deity of great might. In the Mahabharata
there are powerful demons, and the Çivaite cult includes the worship of dread beings, but such
worship only reflects the fear of the unfriendly elements of physical nature.[1787] Nor do
we find in the persons of Durga, Kali, and the Yakshas, unpleasantly savage as these are, a
conception of evil as an organized force directed against the good gods; they are rather the
embodiment of evil human dispositions. The underground demons are punishers of sin, but not
themselves morally evil. There is, it is true, in the Hindu religious scheme the general antithesis
of light and darkness, which are connected with right and wrong--an antithesis that appears
abundantly in other religious systems;[1788] but the powers of darkness are not organized against
the powers of light, and there is no complete dualism, though we have here, perhaps, the starting-point
for such a conception.

+976+. While thus a vague sense of duality has existed all over the world, and in certain cases,
as it seems, there were vague attempts at organization, it is only in Zoroastrianism that the
decisive step has been taken. We have to recognize in this system a distinct movement towards
a unitary conception of the world; but the sense of difference in human experiences was so
great in the mind of the creators of the system that they were led to a unification in two
divisions.[1789] The origin of the movement lies far back at a time when there were no records
of thought and social movements, and it is impossible now to say definitely what were the original
elements of the cult. We may surmise that there was an Indo-Iranian conception of a general
contrast between light and darkness, and that this was the starting-point or the basis of the
developed Iranian theological system. The old Indic and the old Iranian religions seem to have
been independent developments from a common original mass of material; but we do not know what
determined the differences in the two developments. The constructions were the work, doubtless,
of successions of reformers, but the details of these long-continued efforts have not come
down to us.[1790] The essential point is that the evil mass in the world was conceived of as
a unity by the Iranians and assigned a head, Angro Mainyu. This name does not occur in the
Achæmenian inscriptions, but it is mentioned in the Gathas and by Aristotle,[1791] so that
it appears to belong to an early stratum of the Iranian religion. The present state of the
world is regarded as the result of a constant series of antagonisms between the two creators,
Spenta Mainyu (Ahura Mazda) and Angro Mainyu, these being attended each by a circle of helpers.
A polytheistic interpretation of the helpers is avoided by making them abstractions (though
with a tendency toward personification), the representatives of various features or elements
in the government of the world or in the experiences of men.[1792]

+977+. A strictly dualistic system recognizes only two Powers in the world. The Avestan religion,
however, admits other deities besides Ahura Mazda and Angro Mainyu; Mitra, Anahita, and others
are objects of worship. The ancient national faiths, that is, were not content with a simple
division of things between two divine beings. An approach to such a view was made by Judaism,
which, partly under Persian influence, produced the figure of the Satan, a quasi-independent
being hostile to the Supreme Deity.[1793] Christianity, adopting this conception from Judaism,
elaborated it into the person of the Devil, the veritable head of a kingdom of evil, called
in the New Testament "the god of this age."[1794] Though doomed to final defeat, as Ahriman
in the Avesta is doomed, the Devil in the orthodox Christian system is practically omnipresent
and is powerful enough to defeat the plans of God in many cases. In modern enlightened Christian
feeling, however, he has become little more than a name. Though he is credited in theory with
suggesting evil and alluring men to sin, this dogma has small force in the better minds against
the strong conviction of individual freedom and responsibility. Current Christianity, in its
highest forms, is theoretically, but not really, dualistic. The Satan is taken more seriously
by Islam, which has adopted the conception from Christianity and Judaism.[1795] For the ordinary
Moslem he belongs in the category of evil spirits and is as real as one of the jinn; he may
be cursed and stoned and driven away,[1796] but he does not affect the Moslem belief in the
oneness of God.

+978+. From the conquest of Persia by Alexander to the fall of the Parthian dynasty (a period
of over five hundred years) little is known of the history of Mazdaism beyond the fact that
it seems to have been adopted by the Parthians in a debased form; but about the time of the
Persian revival under the Sassanians (226 A.D.) it passed the bounds of its native land and
made its way into the Roman Empire in the shape of Manichæism, a mixture of dualistic and Christian
Gnostic conceptions. They had conviction enough of their own. But all these have been men and women
apart, intensely devout by nature, committed by temperament to great travail of soul and concerned,
above all, for their own spiritual deliverance. But their spiritual sensitiveness is by no
means universal, their sense of struggle not a normal experience for another type of personality.
The demand, therefore, that all religious experience be cast in their particular mould, and
that religion be made real to every one through the same travail
of soul in which it was made real to them, carries with it two very
great dangers: first, that some semblance of struggle should be created
which does not come vitally out of experience; and second, that the
resultant peace should be artificial rather than true, and therefore,
should not only quickly lose its force but really result in reactions
which would leave the soul of the one so misled, or better perhaps,
so mishandled, emptier of any real sense of the reality of religion
than to begin with.

Protestantism Found Its Authority in an Infallibly Inspired Bible

Now this is too largely what has happened in evangelical Protestantism. The "twice-born" have
been set up as the standard for us all; they have demanded of their disciples the same experience
as those through which they themselves have passed. Since this type of religious experience
has always been the more ardent and vivid, since the churches in which least has been made of
it have generally tended to fall away into routine and some want of real power, we have had,
particularly since Jonathan Edwards in America and the Wesleys in
England, a recurrent insistence upon it as the orthodox type of religious
experience.

Partly through inheritance and partly in answer to its own genius
Protestantism has built up a system of theology tending to reproduce
the sequence of conviction of sin, aspiration, repentance, and conversion
by doctrinal pressure from the outside.

The foundations of it all are in the New Testament and somewhat in the Old, but what has been
built upon these foundations has been either too extended or too one-sided. In order to include
in one general sense of condemnation strong enough to create an adequate desire for salvation,
all sorts and conditions of people, theology has not only charged us up with our own sins
which are always a sad enough account, but it has charged us up with ancestral and imputed
sins.

This line of theology has been far too rigid, far too insistent upon
what one may call the facts of theology, and far too blind to the
facts of life.

It has made much of sin in the abstract and sometimes far too little of concrete sin; it has
made more of human depravity than social justice; it has failed to make allowance for varieties
of temper and condition; it is partly responsible for the widespread reaction of the cults and
movements of our own time.

Since so strongly an articulate system as this needed something to sustain it, Protestantism
has constantly supported itself in the authority of the Old and New Testaments.

He is always crudely anthropomorphic and, notwithstanding his primacy, is limited in power
by his own nature, by other supernatural Powers, and by men. Frequently, also, he tends to
become otiose and virtually loses his supremacy;[1800] that is to say, in the increased complexity
of social life a god who was once sufficient for the needs of a simpler organization has to
give way to a number of Powers which are regarded as the controllers of special departments
of life. Such an otiose form may sometimes indicate a succession of divine quasi-dynasties,
somewhat as in the Greek sequence of Ouranos, Kronos, Zeus. Handed down from a former generation,
he becomes dim and is neglected. That he is not worshiped is a result of the fact that other
divine beings, standing nearer to existing human interests, have come to the front.

+982+. The theory has been held in the past, and is still held, that monotheism was the primitive
form of religion and that the worship of many spirits or many gods is a corruption of primitive
thought due to man's intellectual feebleness or to his moral depravity. It is urged that such
a monotheistic system was the natural one for unsophisticated man. The view has been widely
held also that it was the result of a primitive divine revelation to men. It is obvious that
neither of these opinions is susceptible of proof on a priori grounds; the question can be
settled only by a survey of the phenomena known to us. When the facts are clearly stated, it
is then allowable to deduce from them such conclusions as may seem legitimate.

+983+. As a matter of fact, it does not appear that real monotheistic belief exists or has
existed among savage and half-civilized communities of whose history we have any knowledge.
Where a certain supernatural being is described by observers as "the god" or "the supreme god"
of a tribe, it turns out on inquiry that he is at most, as is remarked above, a very prominent
divine figure, perhaps the most prominent, but never standing alone and never invested with
those physical, intellectual, and moral capacities that are necessary for a complete monotheistic
faith.

+984+. While, however, this conclusion is generally admitted for the majority of cases,[1801]
it has been held, and is still held, that there are found in savage cults certain "self-existent,
eternal, moral" beings who satisfy all the conditions of a monotheistic faith. Among the examples
cited are the American gods described by Strachey and Winslow as supreme in power and ethically
good.[1802] But, even in the curt and vague accounts of these early observers (who were not
in position to get accurate notions of Indian beliefs), it appears that there were many gods,
the supposed supreme deity being simply the most prominent in the regions known to the first
settlers. The "Great Spirit" of the Jesuit missionaries is found, in like manner, to be one
of many supernatural patrons, locally important but not absolute in power.[1803] The Zulu Unkulunkulu
is revered by the natives as a very great being, morally good according to the standards of
the people, but he is of uncertain origin and is valueless in the existing cult.[1804] The
much-discussed Australian figures, Baiame, Bunjil, and Daramulun, appear not to differ essentially
from those just mentioned. The reports of the natives who have been questioned on the subject
are often vague and sometimes mutually contradictory, and exact biographical details of these
divine personages are lacking; but careful recent observers are of opinion that they are nothing
more than supernatural headmen, having such power as tribal chiefs or headmen possess, and
credited in different regions with different moral qualities.[1805]

+985+. In the systems of many other low tribes there are quasi-divine beings who are credited
with great power and are revered without being thought of as eternal or as standing alone in
the government of the world. A specially interesting example is the Andaman Puluga, a sort
of creator who receives no worship; his abode is a mountain or the sky, and he seems to have
been originally a local supernatural figure who is traditionally respected but is no longer
thought of as an efficient patron.[1806] The mysterious Ndengei of Fiji is judge of the dead,
but one of many gods and not all-powerful.[1807] In many tribes there is no one great divine
figure; the control of things is divided among hosts of spirits and gods. This is the case
with the Ainu, the Maoris, the Greenlanders, the Kwakiutl of Northwest America,[1808] and is
probably the rule in most of the lower communities.

The terms 'self-existent' and 'eternal' are not found in savage vocabularies and seem to have
no representatives in savage thought. Savage cosmology carries the history of the world back
to a certain point and stops when there is no familiar hypothesis of genesis.[1809] As a rule
spirits (as distinguished from ghosts) are not thought of as having a creator; they are a part
of the system of things and are not supposed to need explanation, and so it seems to be with
simple clan gods. Nor is there any reason, in savage theory, why gods or spirits should die;
death is an accident for human beings, not an essential feature of their constitution; but
such an accident is not usually supposed to occur in the case of gods. What takes the place
of the conception of 'eternal' in savage thought is an existence that is supposed to continue
for the reason that its cessation does not come into consideration. As to creation, there is
no need, in a low community, to suppose more than one originator of the world, and cosmogonic
theory may stop at that point, though this is not an invariable rule. The title "father" for
persons of distinction, human or divine, is found among many undeveloped peoples, and a headman
or patron may be called, by a natural extension of thought, "all-father," a title that is not
essentially different in signification from the simple "father," and does not carry with it
the refined sense of later times. The question of savage monotheism need present no difficulty
if the conditions are clearly defined.[1810] It is true that there is in some cases a monarchical
conception of the divine control of a clan or a tribe, and that this simple system is followed
by a more or less elaborate theology. In both civil and religious systems the increasing complexity
of social life has called forth correspondingly complex organizations, but this movement away
from simplicity does not denote falling off in civil and religious purity and wisdom. A true
monotheism has never arisen except as a criticism of polytheism.

+986+. It is obvious that the popular cults of the great nations of antiquity were far removed
from monotheism. The Egyptians, the Babylonians and the Assyrians, the Phoenicians, the Hebrews,
the Arabs, the Hindus, the Greeks and the Romans, down to a late period, worshiped a multitude
of gods and were not disturbed by any feeling of lack of unity in the divine government of
the world. The proof that such was the case among the ancient Hebrews down to the sixth century
B.C. is found in the Old Testament writings: the historical books from the entrance of the
Hebrew tribes into Canaan down to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Chaldeans and the prophetical
writings of the eighth, seventh, and sixth centuries represent the people generally as addicted
to the worship of a great number of gods. In Persia also, since the Mazdean system recognized
a considerable number of deities, it cannot be doubted that the people were polytheistic, not
to speak of the probability that there were survivals of a lower form of religion which preceded
Mazdaism. In the modern nations of the east of Asia, China and Japan, the popular worship is
anything but monotheistic: in China the local spirits play a very great part in the life of
the people, and in Japan the old gods are still objects of worship. It may be added that among
the masses in some nominally Christian countries, particularly among the peasants of Southern
Europe, the old polytheism continues in the form of the worship of saints and the Madonna.

+987+. While the popular cults in the civilized world have held somewhat pertinaciously to
pluralistic views, there has been a general tendency in advanced circles everywhere toward
a unitary conception of the government of the world. As this tendency has been general it must
be referred to the general progress of thought, the demand of the human mind for unity or simplicity.
The particular lines of the movement have varied among different peoples according to the peculiarities
of their culture, and the unitary feeling has varied in its degree of definiteness. In some
cases the political predominance of a city or region has secured preëminence for its deity,
or national attachment to the national god has elevated him above all other gods; where a people
has cultivated poetry or philosophy, the idealizing thought of the one or the scientific analysis
of the other has led in the same direction.

+988+. First, then, we may note the disposition to give substantial absoluteness to some one
god, the choice of the deity being determined by the political condition as is suggested above,
or by local attachments, or possibly by other conditions which do not appear in the meager
records of early times. Examples of this form of thought are found in several of the great
nations of antiquity. The hymns to the Egyptian gods Ra, Amon, Amon-Ra, Osiris, and the Nile
describe these deities as universal in attributes and in power. At the moment the poet conceives
of the god whom he celebrates as practically the only one--if Ra does everything, there is
no need of any other deity. At another moment, however, the same poet may celebrate Osiris
with equal enthusiasm--these high gods are interchangeable. The suggestion from such fluid
conceptions of the divine persons is that the real thought in the mind of the poet was the
supremacy of some divine power which is incorporated now in one familiar divine name, now in
another. It does not, however, quite reach the point of well-defined monotheism, for these
gods remain distinct, sometimes with separate functions and duties.

+989+. But this mode of conceiving of the supernatural Power would naturally pave the way for
monotheism, and it is not surprising that very early in Egypt a definite monotheistic view
was developed. King Amenophis IV, or to give him the name that he adopted in conformity with
his later cult, Khuen-Aten, made a deliberate attempt to elevate the sun-god Aten to the position
of sole ruler and object of worship. Though the nature of his belief in this deity is not stated
in the documents with the fullness and precision that we should desire, it seems clear, from
the fact that he ordered the destruction of the shrines of the other deities in the land, that
he regarded the worship of this one god as sufficient. The movement was not a successful one
in so far as the national religion was concerned--it lasted only during his lifetime and that
of his son, and then a counter-revolution swept Aten away and reinstated the Theban Amon in
all his former dignity and powers--but its very existence is a testimony to the direction of
thought of educated minds in Egypt about the year 1400 B.C. The Aten revolution appears to
have been distinctively Egyptian--there is no trace of foreign influence in its construction.
It has been suggested that Amenophis got his idea from Semites of Western Asia or particularly
from the Hebrews. But neither the Hebrews nor any other Semitic people of that period were
monotheistic, nor do we find in Egyptian history at the time such social intercourse as might
produce a violent upturning of the religious usage. We can only suppose that Amenophis was
a religious genius who put into definite shape a conception that was in the air, and by the
force of his enthusiasm made it for the moment effective. Such geniuses have arisen from time
to time in the world, and though the revolution of this Egyptian king may seem to us to have
sprung up with abnormal abruptness, it is more reasonable to suppose that the way had been
prepared for it in Egyptian thought. He was a man born out of due time; but it cannot be said
that his attempt was without influence on succeeding generations.

+990+. Passing now to the oldest Semitic civilizations, we find in Babylonia and Assyria many
local deities, one or another of whom comes to the front under the hegemony of some city or
state. Here we are met by the fact already referred to that the gods are interchangeable--it
is practically a matter of indifference whether one deity or another is elevated to headship.
In the great empires the gods of the capital cities naturally became preëminent; so Marduk
in Babylonia and Ashur in Assyria. The royal inscriptions speak of these gods as if they were
all-powerful and all-controlling. In both countries the goddess Ishtar appears as the supreme
director of affairs, and other deities are similarly honored. What might have been the issue
if the later Babylonian kingdom had continued for a long time it is impossible to say, but
the impression made by the words of the devout king Nebuchadnezzar II (605-562 B.C.) is that
he would have been content with Marduk as the one object of worship. Babylonia produced no
such radical reformer as the Egyptian Amenophis--there is no formulation of monotheism; but
the general tone of the Babylonian religion of the sixth century is not very different from
that of the Hebrew religion of the same time.

+991+. The religious point of view of the Vedas belongs in the same category with the early
Egyptian. Varuna, Agni, and Indra appear in the hymns, each in his turn, as supreme. The rôle
of Varuna seems to be practically identical with that of the Iranian Ahura, but unlike the
latter he does not succeed in expelling his brother divinities. This difference of development
between the Hindu and the Iranian people we cannot hope to explain. India moved not toward
monotheism, but toward pantheism. But the Vedic hymns prove the existence of a certain sense
of oneness in the world, held by the poets, though not by the mass of the people, and destined
to issue in a very remarkable religious system.

+992+. It has been by a very different line that China has reached its unitary conception of
the world. The details of the movement are obscure, but its general course is clear.[1811]
As with many other peoples it is the objects of nature to which Chinese worship is mainly paid,
but the Chinese mind, impressed by the power of these objects, is content to rest in them in
their visible form; no proper names are attached to them, and they have a more or less vague
personality which varies in definiteness at different times and with different persons. The
theistic system is a reflection of the social system. The eminently practical Chinese mind
lays the chief stress on the earthly life: in the common everyday life the family is the unit;
but the general course of affairs is controlled by the great natural Powers of earth and sky,
whence arise the two great divisions of Chinese worship. The State is a larger family in which
the duke or emperor or other chief political officer occupies the same position that is occupied
by the father in the smaller social circle; the government is patriarchal, with gradations
which correspond to those of the family. Life, it is held, is controlled by the heavenly bodies,
by the mountains and rivers of the earth, and by deceased members of families. To these the
people sacrifice, the principal part being taken by the civil heads of the larger and smaller
constituent parts of the empire; there is thus no place for priests. As the emperor (or other
head of the State) is supreme on earth, so Heaven and Earth, Sun and Moon occupy the highest
positions in the divine hierarchy, and ancestors are influential and entitled to worship according
to the rank of the families they represent.[1812] From an early time, long before Confucius,
the headship of the divine Powers, it would seem, was assigned to Heaven--not the physical
sky, but, at least in the thinking circles of the nation, the Power therein residing. Thus
arose the conception of an imperial divine government in which Heaven, though it does not stand
alone, is recognized as supreme. The larger theistic conception is embodied in the annual sacrifices
conducted by the emperor,[1813] especially at the winter and summer solstices when sacrifices
are offered to Heaven and Earth, Sun and Moon, the Four Quarters and the mountains and rivers
of the empire and to his ancestors, whose worship includes the interests of the whole State.
Thus with a vast number of objects of worship (spirits of all departments of life, and a few
gods proper) the Chinese religion has attained and maintained a general unitary conception
of the divine government of the world.[1814]

