15                   36. 7
         7                  9.40                   37.36
         8                 11.54                   38.43
         9                 14.13                   39.43
        10                 16.43                   40.33
        11                 18.37                   41.09
        12                 20.10                   41.25
        13                 20.33                   41.19
        14                 20.53                   41.09
        15                 21.12                   40.55
        16                 22.05                   41.16
        17                 22.57                   41.50
        18                 24.33                   41.57
        19                 26.32                   41.50
        20                 28.04                   41.33
        21                 29.24                   40.42
        22                 30.25                   39.54
        23                 31.39                   38.39
        24                 33.13                   36.49
        25                 35.51                   35.41
        26                 37.43                   33.53
        27                 38.42                   32.50
        28                 39.23                   32.31
        29                 39.51            (D.R.) 32.25
  May   30            Lat. 40.25 N.          Long. 30.22 W.
        31                 40.54                   27.15
  June   1                 41.35                   24.15
         2                 42.07                   22.15
         3                 42.18                   20.30
         4                 42.10                   18.04
         5                 41.58                   16.31
         6                 42.31                   15.42
         7                 43.47                   14.12
         8                 45.45            (D.R.) 12.06
         9                 47.34                    9.07
        10                 49.18                    6.03
        11  On this day the Alabama entered Cherbourg harbour.

No. III.

Mr. LAIRD'S SPEECH ON THE ALABAMA.

The following is a full report of Mr. Laird's speech in the House of Commons on Friday night:--After
the discussion that has taken place about the Alabama, I shall not trouble the house with many
remarks. I can only say, from all I know and all I have heard, that from the day the vessel
was laid down to her completion everything was open and above-board in this country. (Cheers.)
I also further say that the officers of the Government had every facility afforded them for
inspecting the ship during the progress of building. When the officers came to the builders
they were shown the ship, and day after day the customs officers were on board, as they were
when she finally left, and they declared there was nothing wrong. Thucydides for instance tells
the story of a great war, yet his comments on it are few, and are mainly given in the dramatic
and would-be objective form of speeches by leading men of the day. But the Greeks have objectivity
in a far more important sense than this. Their objectivity is no literary device but a quality of
mind. They have the power of standing aloof from matters in which they are personally interested,
and surveying them from outside like impartial spectators, with the keenest interest, but without
bias. As the Delphic priestess in the act of prophecy lost her individuality and became the mouthpiece
of the god, so the Greek allowed facts to speak for themselves, became their mouthpiece and
banished the intrusive ego. If therefore we call the Greeks objective, all this must be included
in our definition of the word.

We shall understand Greek 'truthfulness' best, if, dropping philosophical terms, and forgetting
modern meanings, we remember a saying of Anaxagoras, who, when asked for what purpose he was
born, replied: 'To contemplate the works of nature.' The disinterested passion for contemplating
things, which gathered inquiring groups round Socrates to discuss what justice and friendship mean,
or whether goodness is knowledge and can be learnt, has its counterpart in literature. The Greeks
were fascinated by the spectacle of man and the world, and their fascination is seen not only
in their formal philosophy. Of their poets too it may be said that they were born to see the
world and human life--not to moralize or to indulge in sentiment or rhetoric or mysticism about
it, but to see it. Keats's description of the poetic temperament fits them closely: 'It has
no self, it is everything and nothing.... It enjoys light and shade.... A poet is the most unpoetical
of anything in existence, he is continually in, for, and filling some other body.' In such
a mood men will write literature that may justly be called truthful. Avoiding the didactic, they
will not distort truth to suit personal bias; avoiding rhetoric, they will not sacrifice it to
fine phrases; avoiding sentiment and fancy, they will not gratify their own or their hearer's
feelings at the expense of truth; avoiding mysticism, they will not move away from facts into
a world of emotions. Their care will be to see things, and their delight will be in the mere
vision. They will echo the words of Keats, 'If a sparrow comes before my windows, I take part in its
existence and pick about the gravel'[117]: they will not treat it as Shelley treats the skylark,
or even as Keats and Wordsworth treat the nightingale. Herein is one of the secrets of Greek poetry,
for the Greek poets, more than any others, bring us in a manner entirely simple and natural
into immediate contact with what they describe, and thus escape the thousand distortions for
which epigram, rhetoric, sentiment, fancy, mysticism and romanticism are responsible. This
secret may be called 'directness'. It is the habit of looking straight and steadily at things, and
describing them as they are, the very contrary of the habit of didactic comment and of rhetorical
or emotional inflation. The 'direct' writer, in the fullest extent that is possible, keeps himself
and his feelings in the background.

He does not allow the mists which rise from a man's personality to come between him and his subject.

[117]
I have taken these quotations of Keats from Bradley, Oxford Lecture
on Poetry, p. 238. During the Crimean war, a man-of-war (called the America, if I remember) was built
in America for the Russian Government, and brought out to the Pacific, filled with arms and
munitions, by an officer in the United States navy. This gentleman took her to Petropaulovski,
where she did service against the allied squadron, and she is still in the Russian navy. (Cries
of 'No,' and 'Hear, hear.') We made no such childish fuss about this act of 'hostility' by
a friendly Power, which we could not prevent, as our friends are now making about the Alabama,
whose departure from England our Government could not stop."

The America was commanded by a Lieutenant Hudson, who--if my information be correct, and I
have no doubt that it is--was then, or had been just previously, a lieutenant in the American
navy; he was the son of a most distinguished officer in the same service, Captain Hudson. I
am further informed that some doubts having arisen about the character of this ship, the American
men-of-war in the different ports she called at protected her; and, on her arrival in Russia,
the captain who took her out was, I know, very handsomely rewarded for his services. (Hear,
hear.) Now, I will go a step further about the Northern States. In 1861, just after the war
broke out, a friend of mine, whom I have known for many years, was over here, and came to me
with a view of getting vessels built in this country for the American Government--the Northern
Government. (Hear, hear.) Its agents in this country made inquiries; plans and estimates were
given to my friend, and transmitted to the Secretary of the American Navy. I will read an abstract
from this gentleman's letter, dated the 30th of July, 1861. It is written from Washington,
and states--

"Since my arrival here I have had frequent interviews with our 'Department of Naval Affairs,'
and am happy to say that the Minister of the Navy is inclined to have an iron-plated ship built
out of the country. (Hear, hear.) This ship is designed for a specific purpose, to accomplish
a definite object. I send you herewith a memorandum handed me last evening from the department,
with the request that I would send it to you by steamer's mail of to-morrow, and to ask your
immediate reply, stating if you will agree to build such a ship as desired, how soon, and for
how much, with such plans and specifications as you may deem it best to send me."

(Loud cheers.) The extract from the memorandum states that "the ship is to be finished complete,
with guns and everything appertaining." (Renewed cheering and laughter.) On the 14th of August
I received another letter from the same gentleman, from which the following is an extract:

"I have this morning a note from the Assistant-Secretary of the Navy, in which he says, 'I
hope your friends will tender for the two-iron plated steamers.'" (Hear, hear.) After this,
the firm with which I was lately connected, having made contracts to a large extent with other
persons, stated that they were not in a position to undertake any orders to be done in so short
a time. This was the reply:

"I sent your last letter, received yesterday, to the Secretary of the Navy, who was very desirous
to have you build the iron-plated or bomb-proof batteries, and I trust that he may yet decide
to have you build one or more of the gunboats."

(Loud cheers.) I think, perhaps, in the present state of the law in America, I shall not be
asked to give the name of my correspondent (hear), but he is a gentleman of the highest respectability.
If any honourable member wishes, I should have no hesitation in handing the whole correspondence,
with the original letters, into the hands of you, sir, or the First Minister of the Crown,
in strict confidence, because there are communications in these letters respecting the views
of the American Government which I certainly should not divulge, which I have not mentioned
or alluded to before. But seeing that the American Government are making so much work about
other parties, whom they charge with violating or evading the law, though in reality they have
not done so, I think it only fair to state those facts. (Cheers.) As I said before, they are
facts. (Hear, hear.) I do not feel at liberty to state those points to which I have referred,
as being of a confidential character, but, if any honourable gentleman feels a doubt regarding
the accuracy of what I have stated, I shall feel happy to place the documents in the hands
of the Speaker, or of the First Minister of the Crown, when he will see that they substantiate
much more than I have stated. (Cheers.) I do not wish to occupy the House longer; but I must
say this, that to talk of freedom in a land like the Northern States of America is an absurdity.
Almost every detective that can be got hold of in this country is employed. (Hear, hear.) I
believe there are spies in my son's works in Birkenhead, and in all the great establishments
in the country. A friend of mine had detectives regularly on his track in consequence of some
circumstances connected with his vessels. If that be freedom, I think we had better remain
in the position in which we now are. (Cheers and laughter.) In conclusion, I will allude to
a remark which was made elsewhere last night--a remark, I presume, applying to me or to somebody
else, which was utterly uncalled for. (Cheers.)

No. IV.

THE ENGAGEMENT WITH THE HATTERAS.

From the Journal of an Officer of the ALABAMA.

Sunday, 11th.--Fine moderate breeze from the eastward. Read Articles of War. Noon: Eighteen
miles from Galveston. As I write this some are discussing the probability of a fight before
morning. 2.25 P.M.: Light breeze; sail discovered by the look-out on the bow. Shortly after,
three, and at last five, vessels were seen; two of which were reported to be steamers. Every
one delighted at the prospect of a fight, no doubt whatever existing as to their being war-vessels--blockaders
we supposed. The watch below came on deck, and of their own accord began preparing the guns,
&c., for action. Those whose watch it was on deck were engaged in getting the propeller ready
for lowering; others were bending a cable to a kedge and putting it over the bow--the engineers
firing up for steam, officers looking to their side-arms, &c., and discussing the size of their
expected adversary or adversaries. At 2.30 shortened sail and tacked to the southward. 4 P.M.:
A steamer reported standing out from the fleet toward us. Backed maintopsail and lowered propeller.
4.50: Every thing reported ready for action. Chase bearing N.N.E., distant ten miles. Twilight
set in about 5.45. Took in all sail. At 6.20 beat up to quarters, manned the starboard battery,
and loaded with five second shell; turned round, stood for the steamer, having previously made
her out to be a two-masted side-wheel, of apparent 1,200 tons, though at the distance she was
before dark we could not form any correct estimate of her size, &c.

At 6.30 the strange steamer hailed and asked, "What steamer is that?" We replied (in order
to be certain who he was), "Her Majesty's ship Petrel! What steamer is that?" Two or three
times we asked the question, until we heard, "This is the United States steamer----," not hearing
the name. However, United States steamer was sufficient. As no doubt existed as to her character,
we said, at 6.35, that this was the "Confederate States steamer, Alabama," accompanying the
last syllable of our name with a shell fired over him. The signal being given, the other guns
took up the refrain, and a tremendous volley from our whole broadside given to him, every shell
striking his side, the shot striking being distinctly heard on board our vessel, and thus found
that she was iron.

The enemy replied, and the action became general. A most sharp spirited firing was kept up
on both sides, our fellows peppering away as though the action depended on each individual.
And so it did. Pistols and rifles were continually pouring from our quarter-deck messengers
most deadly, the distance during the hottest of the fight not being more than forty yards!
It was a grand, though fearful sight, to see the guns belching forth, in the darkness of the
night, sheets of living flame, the deadly missiles striking the enemy with a force that we
could feel. Then, when the shells struck her sides, especially the percussion ones, her whole
side was lit up, and showing rents of five or six feet in length. One shot had just struck
our smoke-stack, and wounding one man in the cheek, when the enemy ceased his firing, and fired
a lee gun; then a second, and a third. The order was given to "Cease firing." This was at 6.52.
A tremendous cheering commenced, and it was not till everybody had cleared his throat to his
own satisfaction, that silence could be obtained. We then hailed him, and in reply he stated
that he had surrendered, was on fire, and also that he was in a sinking condition. He then
sent a boat on board, and surrendered the U.S. gunboat, Hatteras, nine guns, Lieutenant-Commander
Blake, 140 men. Boats were immediately lowered and sent to his assistance, when an alarm was
given that another steamer was bearing down for us. The boats were recalled and hoisted up,
when it was found to be a false alarm. Can any of my youngsters straighten it out? This is the
story:

King Alfred, after his fatal defeat at Marston Moor, having taken refuge in an oak-tree, was so
absorbed in watching a spider which had tried to weave its web eleven times and succeeded on
the twelfth, that he allowed the cakes to burn; whereupon, the herdsman's wife, rushing in, exclaimed:

"Oh,
Diamond! Diamond! what mischief hast thou done?"

To which he meekly replied: "I cannot tell a lie; I did it with my little hatchet."

"Take away," cried she, "that bauble!"

"I have done my duty, thank heaven!" said he, but he never smiled again.

A LITTLE SCHOOLMA'AM.

DEAR JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT: I should like to tell the Little Schoolma'am about our little schoolma'am.

She
is a young lady of about twenty-one years, and looks too delicate to govern such a school.
But she does it; and though as fond of fun as any of us at the right
time, yet in school she insists on attention to business, and will
not tolerate idleness or disobedience. She is very kind and gentle,
but firm and decided, and we all know that she means what she says,
and must be obeyed implicitly. She says she wants us to love and trust
her as a friend, and we do. Out of school she seems as young as we
do, for she is full of fun and likes us to have a good time. She tries
to make school pleasant to us, and a while ago she put a box on her
desk, and said, when we had any questions to ask, or complaints to
make, we might write them on a slip of paper and put it in that box,
which was locked and had a hole in the top. Sometimes she answers
the questions publicly, and sometimes she writes them and puts them
in the "letter-box." One shot struck under the counter, penetrating as far as a timber, then glancing
off; a second struck the funnel; a third going through the side across the berth-deck, and
into the opposite side; another raising the deuce in the lamp room; the others lodging in the
coal-bunkers. Taking a shell up and examining it, we found it filled with sand instead of powder.
The enemy's fire was directed chiefly towards our stern, the shots flying pretty quick over
the quarter-deck, near to where our Captain was standing. As they came whizzing over him, he,
with his usual coolness, would exclaim--"Give it to the rascals!"--"Aim low, men!"--"Don't
be all night sinking that fellow!" when for all or anything we knew, she might have been an
iron-clad or a ram.

