

AGRICULTURE

Despite the difficulties of administering Congressional programs which apply outmoded prescriptions
and which aggravate rather than solve problems, the past eight years brought notable advances
in agriculture.

Total agricultural assets are approximately $200 billion--up $36 billion in eight years.

Farm owner equities are at the near record high of $174 billion.

Farm ownership is at a record high with fewer farmers in a tenant and sharecropper status than
at any time in our nation's history.

The "Food-for-Peace" program has demonstrated how surplus of American food and fiber can be
effectively used to feed and clothe the needy abroad. Aided by this humanitarian program, total
agricultural exports have grown from $2.8 billion in 1953 to an average of about $4 billion
annually for the past three years. For 1960, exports are estimated at $4.5 billion, the highest
volume on record. Under the Food-for-Peace program, the largest wheat transaction in history
was consummated with India in 1960.

The problems of low-income farm families received systematic attention for the first time in
the Rural Development Program. This program has gone forward in 39 States, yielding higher
incomes and a better living for rural people most in need.

The Rural Electrification Administration has helped meet the growing demand for power and telephones
in agricultural areas. Ninety-seven percent of all farms now have central station electric
power. Dependence upon Federal financing should no longer be necessary.

The Farm Credit Administration has been made an independent agency more responsive to the farmer's
needs.

The search for new uses for our farm abundance and to develop new crops for current needs has
made major progress. Agricultural research appropriations have increased by 171 percent since 1953.

Farmers are being saved approximately $80 million a year by the repeal in 1956 of Federal taxes
on gasoline used in tractors and other machinery.

Since 1953, appropriations have been doubled for county agents, home agents and the Extension
Service.

Eligibility for Social Security benefits has been extended to farmers and their families.

Yet in certain aspects our agricultural surplus situation is increasingly grave. For example,
our wheat stocks now total 1.3 billion bushels. If we did not harvest one bushel of wheat in
this coming year, we would still have all we could eat, all we could sell abroad, all we could
give away, and still have a substantial carryover. Extraordinary costs are involved just in
management and disposal of this burdensome surplus. Obviously important adjustments must still
come. Congress must enact additional legislation to permit wheat and other farm commodities
to move into regular marketing channels in an orderly manner and at the same time afford the
needed price protection to the farmer. Only then will agriculture again be free, sound, and
profitable.

NATURAL RESOURCES

New emphasis has been placed on the care of our national parks. A ten year development program
of our National Park System--Mission 66--was initiated and 633,000 acres of park land have
been added since 1953.

Appropriations for fish and wildlife operations have more than doubled. Thirty-five new refuges,
containing 11,342,000 acres, have been added to the national wildlife management system.

Our Nation's forests have been improved at the most rapid rate in history.

The largest sustained effort in water resources development in our history has taken place.
In the field of reclamation alone, over 50 new projects, or project units, have been authorized
since 1953--including the billion dollar Colorado River Storage Project. When all these projects
have been completed they will have a storage capacity of nearly 43 million acre-feet--an increase
of 50 percent over the Bureau of Reclamation's storage capacity in mid-1953. In addition, since
1953 over 450 new navigation flood control and multiple purpose projects of the Corps of Engineers
have been started, costing nearly 6 billion dollars.

Soil and water conservation has been advanced as never before. One hundred forty-one projects
are now being constructed under the Watershed Protection Program.

Hydroelectric power has been impressively developed through a policy which recognizes that
the job to be done requires comprehensive development by Federal, State, and local governments
and private enterprise. Teamwork is essential to achieve this objective.

The Federal Columbia River power system has grown from two multipurpose dams with a 2.6 million
kilowatt capacity to 17 multipurpose projects completed or under construction with an ultimate
installed capacity of 8.1 million kilowatts. After years of negotiation, a Columbia River Storage
Development agreement with Canada now opens the way for early realization of unparalleled power,
flood control and resource conservation benefits for the Pacific Northwest. A treaty implementing
this agreement will shortly be submitted to the Senate.

A farsighted and highly successful program for meeting urgent water needs is being carded out
by converting salt water to fresh water. A 75 percent reduction in the cost of this process
has already been realized.

Continuous resource development is essential for our expanding economy. We must continue vigorous,
combined Federal, State and private programs, at the same time preserving to the maximum extent
possible our natural and scenic heritage for future generations.

EDUCATION, SCIENCE, AND TECHNOLOGY

The National Defense Education Act of 1958 is already a milestone in the history of American
education. It provides broad opportunities for the intellectual development of all children
by strengthening courses of study in science, mathematics, and foreign languages, by developing
new graduate programs to train additional teachers, and by providing loans for young people
who need financial help to go to college.

The Administration proposed on numerous occasions a broad new five-year program of Federal
aid to help overcome the classroom shortage in public elementary and secondary schools. Recommendations
were also made to give assistance to colleges and universities for the construction of academic
and residential buildings to meet future enrollment increases.

This Administration greatly expanded Federal loans for building dormitories for students, teachers,
and nurses training, a program assisting in the construction of approximately 200,000 living
accommodations during the past 8 years.

There has been a vigorous acceleration of health, resource and education programs designed
to advance the role of the American Indian in our society. Last fall, for example, 91 percent
of the Indian children between the ages of 6 and 18 on reservations were enrolled in school.
This is a rise of 12 percent since 1953.

In the field of science and technology, startling strides have been made by the new National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. Slag cement is made by grinding together slaked lime and
granulated blast furnace slag.

~SIZE AND WEIGHT OF BARRELS OF CEMENT.~--The commercial unit of measurement of cement is the barrel;
the unit of shipment is the bag. A barrel of Portland cement contains 380 lbs. of cement, and
the barrel itself weighs 20 lbs.; there are four bags (cloth or paper sacks) of cement to the barrel,
and the regulation cloth sack weighs 1½ lbs.

The size of cement barrels varies, due to the differences in weight of cement and to differences in
compacting the cement into the barrel. A light burned Portland cement
weighs 100 lbs. per struck bushel; a heavy burned Portland cement
weighs 118 to 125 lbs. per struck bushel. I believe the present organizational arrangements in this area, with the revisions
proposed last year, are completely adequate for the tasks ahead.

Americans can look forward to new achievements in space exploration. The near future will hold
such wonders as the orbital flight of an astronaut, the landing of instruments on the moon,
the launching of the powerful giant Saturn rocket vehicles, and the reconnaissance of Mars
and Venus by unmanned vehicles.

The application of atomic energy to industry, agriculture, and medicine has progressed from
hope and experiment to reality. American industry and agriculture are making increasing use
of radioisotopes to improve manufacturing, testing, and crop-raising. Atomic energy has improved
the ability of the healing professions to combat disease, and holds promise for an eventual
increase in man's life span.

Education, science, technology and balanced programs of every kind-these are the roadways to
progress. With appropriate Federal support, the States and localities can assure opportunities
for achieving excellence at all levels of the educational system; and with the Federal government
continuing to give wholehearted support to basic scientific research and technology, we can
expect to maintain our position of leadership in the world.

CIVIL RIGHTS

The first consequential Federal Civil Rights legislation in 85 years was enacted by Congress
on recommendation of the Administration in 1957 and 1960.

A new Civil Rights Division in the Department of Justice has already moved to enforce constitutional
rights in such areas as voting and the elimination of Jim Crow laws.

Greater equality of job opportunity in Federal employment and employment with Federal contractors
has been effectively provided through the President's Committees on Government Contracts and
Government Employment Practices.

The Civil Rights Commission has undertaken important surveys in the fields of housing, voting,
and education.

Segregation has been abolished in the Armed Forces, in Veterans' Hospitals, in all Federal
employment, and throughout the District of Columbia--administratively accomplished progress
in this field that is unmatched in America's recent history.

This pioneering work in civil rights must go on. Not only because discrimination is morally
wrong, but also because its impact is more than national--it is world-wide.

HEALTH AND WELFARE

Federal medical research expenditures have increased more than fourfold since 1954.

A vast variety of the approaches known to medical science has been explored to find better
methods of treatment and prevention of major diseases, particularly heart diseases, cancer,
and mental illness.

The control of air and water pollution has been greatly strengthened.

Americans now have greater protection against harmful, unclean, or misrepresented foods, drugs,
or cosmetics through a strengthened Food and Drug Administration and by new legislation which
requires that food additives be proved safe for human consumption before use.

A newly established Federal Radiation Council, along with the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, analyzes and coordinates information regarding radiological activities which affect
the public health.

Medical manpower has been increased by Federal grants for teaching and research.

Construction of new medical facilities has been stepped up and extended to include nursing
homes, diagnostic and treatment centers, and rehabilitation facilities.

The vocational rehabilitation program has been significantly expanded. About 90,000 handicapped
people are now being rehabilitated annually so they are again able to earn their own living
with self-respect and dignity.

New legislation provides for better medical care for the needy aged, including those older
persons, who, while otherwise self-sufficient, need help in meeting their health care costs.
The Administration recommended a major expansion of this effort.

The coverage of the Social Security Act has been broadened since 1953 to make 11 million additional
people eligible for retirement, disability or survivor benefits for themselves or their dependents,
and the Social Security benefits have been substantially improved.

Grants to the States for maternal and child welfare services have been increased.

The States, aided by Federal grants, now assist some 6 million needy people through the programs
of Old Age Assistance, Aid to Dependent Children, Aid to the Blind, and Aid to the Totally
and Permanently Disabled.

HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

More houses have been built during the past eight years--over nine million--than during any
previous eight years in history.

An historic new approach--Urban Renewal--now replaces piecemeal thrusts at slum pockets and
urban blight. Communities engaged in urban renewal have doubled and renewal projects have more
than tripled since 1953. An estimated 68 projects in 50 cities will be completed by the end
of the current fiscal year; another 577 projects will be underway, and planning for 310 more
will be in process. A total of $2 billion in Federal grants will ultimately be required to
finance these 955 projects.

New programs have been initiated to provide more and better housing for elderly people. Approximately
25,000 units especially designed for the elderly have been built, started, or approved in the
past three years.

For the first time, because of Federal help and .encouragement, 90 metropolitan areas and urban
regions and 1140 smaller towns throughout the country are making comprehensive development
plans for their future growth and development.

American communities have been helped to plan water and sanitation systems and schools through
planning advances for 1600 public works projects with a construction cost of nearly $2 billion.

Mortgage insurance on individual homes has been greatly expanded. During the past eight years,
the Federal Housing Administration alone insured over 21/2 million home mortgages valued at
$27 billion, and in addition, insured more than ten million property improvement loans.

The Federal government must continue to provide leadership in order to make our cities and
communities better places in which to live, work, and raise families, but without usurping
rightful local authority, replacing individual responsibility, or stifling private initiative.

IMMIGRATION

Over 32,000 victims of Communist tyranny in Hungary were brought to our shores, and at this
time our country is working to assist refugees from tyranny in Cuba.

Since 1953, the waiting period for naturalization applicants has been reduced from 18 months
to 45 days.

The Administration also has made legislative recommendations to liberalize existing restrictions
upon immigration while still safeguarding the national interest. It is imperative that our
immigration policy be in the finest American tradition of providing a haven for oppressed peoples
and fully in accord with our obligation as a leader of the free world.

VETERANS

In discharging the nation's obligation to our veterans, during the past eight years there have
been:

The readjustment of World War II veterans was completed, and the five million Korean conflict
veterans were assisted in achieving successful readjustment to civilian life;

Increases in compensation benefits for all eligible veterans with service connected disabilities;

Higher non-service connected pension benefits for needy veterans;

Greatly improved benefits to survivors of veterans dying in or as a result of service;

Authorization, by Presidential directive, of an increase in the number of beds available for
sick and disabled veterans;

Development of a 12-year, $900 million construction program to modernize and improve our veterans
hospitals;

New modern techniques brought into the administration of Veterans Affairs to provide the highest
quality service possible to those who have defended us.

CONCLUSION

In concluding my final message to the Congress, it is fitting to look back to my first--to
the aims and ideals I set forth on February 2, 1953: To use America's influence in world affairs
to advance the cause of peace and justice, to conduct the affairs of the Executive Branch with
integrity and efficiency, to encourage creative initiative in our economy, and to work toward
the attainment of the well-being and equality of opportunity of all citizens.

Equally, we have honored our commitment to pursue and attain specific objectives. Among them,
as stated eight years ago: strengthening of the mutual security program; development of world
trade and commerce; ending of hostilities in Korea; creation of a powerful deterrent force;
practicing fiscal responsibility; checking the menace of inflation; reducing the tax burden;
providing an effective internal security program; developing and conserving our natural resources;
reducing governmental interference in the affairs of the farmer; strengthening and improving
services by the Department of Labor, and the vigilant guarding of civil and social fights.

I do not close this message implying that all is well--that all problems are solved. For progress
implies both new and continuing problems and, unlike Presidential administrations, problems
rarely have terminal dates.

Abroad, there is the continuing Communist threat to the freedom of Berlin, an explosive situation
in Laos, the problems caused by Communist penetration of Cuba, as well as the many problems
connected with the development of the new nations in Africa. These areas, in particular, call
for delicate handling and constant review.

At home, several conspicuous problems remain: promoting higher levels of employment, with special
emphasis on areas in which heavy unemployment has persisted; continuing to provide for steady
economic growth and preserving a sound currency; bringing our balance of payments into more
reasonable equilibrium and continuing a high level of confidence in our national and international
systems; eliminating heavily excessive surpluses of a few farm commodities; and overcoming
deficiencies in our health and educational programs.

Our goal always has been to add to the spiritual, moral, and material strength of our nation.
I believe we have done this. But it is a process that must never end. Let us pray that leaders
of both the near and distant future will be able to keep the nation strong and at peace, that
they will advance the well-being of all our people, that they will lead us on to still higher
moral standards, and that, in achieving these goals, they will maintain a reasonable balance
between private and governmental responsibility.

***

State of the Union Address John F. Kennedy January 30, 1961

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the Congress:

It is a pleasure to return from whence I came. You are among my oldest friends in Washington--and
this House is my oldest home. It was here, more than 14 years ago, that I first took the oath
of Federal office. It was here, for 14 years, that I gained both knowledge and inspiration
from members of both parties in both Houses--from your wise and generous leaders--and from
the pronouncements which I can vividly recall, sitting where you now sit--including the programs
of two great Presidents, the undimmed eloquence of Churchill, the soaring idealism of Nehru,
the steadfast words of General de Gaulle. To speak from this same historic rostrum is a sobering
experience. To be back among so many friends is a happy one.

I am confident that that friendship will continue. Our Constitution wisely assigns both joint
and separate roles to each branch of the government; and a President and a Congress who hold
each other in mutual respect will neither permit nor attempt any trespass. For my part, I shall
withhold from neither the Congress nor the people any fact or report, past, present, or future,
which is necessary for an informed judgment of our conduct and hazards. I shall neither shift
the burden of executive decisions to the Congress, nor avoid responsibility for the outcome
of those decisions.

I speak today in an hour of national peril and national opportunity. Before my term has ended,
we shall have to test anew whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure.
The outcome is by no means certain. The answers are by no means clear. All of us together--this
Administration, this Congress, this nation--must forge those answers.

But today, were I to offer--after little more than a week in office--detailed legislation to
remedy every national ill, the Congress would rightly wonder whether the desire for speed had
replaced the duty of responsibility.

My remarks, therefore, will be limited. But they will also be candid. To state the facts frankly
is not to despair the future nor indict the past. The prudent heir takes careful inventory
of his legacies, and gives a faithful accounting to those whom he owes an obligation of trust.
And, while the occasion does not call for another recital of our blessings and assets, we do
have no greater asset than the willingness of a free and determined people, through its elected
officials, to face all problems frankly and meet all dangers free from panic or fear.

                                   I.

The present state of our economy is disturbing. We take office in the wake of seven months
of recession, three and one-half years of slack, seven years of diminished economic growth,
and nine years of falling farm income.

Business bankruptcies have reached their highest level since the Great Depression. Since 1951
farm income has been squeezed down by 25 percent. Save for a brief period in 1958, insured
unemployment is at the highest peak in our history. Of some five and one-half million Americans
who are without jobs, more than one million have been searching for work for more than four
months. And during each month some 150,000 workers are exhausting their already meager jobless
benefit rights.

Nearly one-eighth of those who are without jobs live almost without hope in nearly one hundred
especially depressed and troubled areas. The rest include new school graduates unable to use
their talents, farmers forced to give up their part-time jobs which helped balance their family
budgets, skilled and unskilled workers laid off in such important industries as metals, machinery,
automobiles and apparel.

Our recovery from the 1958 recession, moreover, was anemic and incomplete. Our Gross National
Product never regained its full potential. Unemployment never returned to normal levels. Maximum
use of our national industrial capacity was never restored.

In short, the American economy is in trouble. The most resourceful industrialized country on
earth ranks among the last in the rate of economic growth. Since last spring our economic growth
rate has actually receded. Business investment is in a decline. Profits have fallen below predicted
levels. Construction is off. A million unsold automobiles are in inventory. Fewer people are
working--and the average work week has shrunk well below 40 hours. Yet prices have continued
to rise--so that now too many Americans have less to spend for items that cost more to buy.

Economic prophecy is at best an uncertain art--as demonstrated by the prediction one year ago
from this same podium that 1960 would be, and I quote, "the most prosperous year in our history."
Nevertheless, forecasts of continued slack and only slightly reduced unemployment through 1961
and 1962 have been made with alarming unanimity--and this Administration does not intend to
stand helplessly by.

We cannot afford to waste idle hours and empty plants while awaiting the end of the recession.
We must show the world what a free economy can do--to reduce unemployment, to put unused capacity
to work, to spur new productivity, and to foster higher economic growth within a range of sound
fiscal policies and relative price stability.

I will propose to the Congress within the next 14 days measures to improve unemployment compensation
through temporary increases in duration on a self-supporting basis--to provide more food for
the families of the unemployed, and to aid their needy children--to redevelop our areas of
chronic labor surplus--to expand the services of the U.S. Employment Offices--to stimulate
housing and construction--to secure more purchasing power for our lowest paid workers by raising
and expanding the minimum wage--to offer tax incentives for sound plant investment--to increase
the development of our natural resources--to encourage price stability--and to take other steps
aimed at insuring a prompt recovery and paving the way for increased long-range growth. This
is not a partisan program concentrating on our weaknesses--it is, I hope, a national program
to realize our national strength.

                                  II.

Efficient expansion at home, stimulating the new plant and technology that can make our goods
more competitive, is also the key to the international balance of payments problem. Laying
aside all alarmist talk and panicky solutions, let us put that knotty problem in its proper
perspective. 

The various government bureaus, state and city works departments, railway companies, and most
public service corporations have their own specifications. Standard specifications are also put forward
by several of the national engineering societies, and one of these or the personal specification
of the engineer is used for individual works. Buying cement to specification necessitates testing
to determine that the material purchased meets the specified requirements.

The 1960 deficit, on the other hand, was more the result of an increase in private capital
outflow seeking new opportunity, higher return or speculative advantage abroad.

Meanwhile this country has continued to bear more than its share of the West's military and
foreign aid obligations. Under existing policies, another deficit of $2 billion is predicted
for 1961--and individuals in those countries whose dollar position once depended on these deficits
for improvement now wonder aloud whether our gold reserves will remain sufficient to meet our
own obligations.

All this is cause for concern--but it is not cause for panic. For our monetary and financial
position remains exceedingly strong. Including our drawing rights in the International Monetary
Fund and the gold reserve held as backing for our currency and Federal Reserve deposits, we
have some $22 billion in total gold stocks and other international monetary reserves available--and
I now pledge that their full strength stands behind the value of the dollar for use if needed.

Moreover, we hold large assets abroad--the total owed this nation far exceeds the claims upon
our reserves--and our exports once again substantially exceed our imports.

In short, we need not--and we shall not--take any action to increase the dollar price of gold
from $35 an ounce--to impose exchange controls--to reduce our anti-recession efforts--to fall
back on restrictive trade policies--or to weaken our commitments around the world.

This Administration will not distort the value of the dollar in any fashion. And this is a
commitment.

Prudence and good sense do require, however, that new steps be taken to ease the payments deficit
and prevent any gold crisis. Our success in world affairs has long depended in part upon foreign
confidence in our ability to pay. A series of executive orders, legislative remedies and cooperative
efforts with our allies will get underway immediately--aimed at attracting foreign investment
and travel to this country--promoting American exports, at stable prices and with more liberal
government guarantees and financing--curbing tax and customs loopholes that encourage undue
spending of private dollars abroad--and (through OECD, NATO and otherwise) sharing with our
allies all efforts to provide for the common defense of the free world and the hopes for growth
of the less developed lands. While the current deficit lasts, ways will be found to ease our
dollar outlays abroad without placing the full burden on the families of men whom we have asked
to serve our Flag overseas.

In short, whatever is required will be done to back up all our efforts abroad, and to make
certain that, in the future as in the past, the dollar is as "sound as a dollar."

                                 III.

But more than our exchange of international payments is out of balance. The current Federal
budget for fiscal 1961 is almost certain to show a net deficit. The budget already submitted
for fiscal 1962 will remain in balance only if the Congress enacts all the revenue measures
requested--and only if an earlier and sharper up-turn in the economy than my economic advisers
now think likely produces the tax revenues estimated. Nevertheless, a new Administration must
of necessity build on the spending and revenue estimates already submitted. Within that framework,
barring the development of urgent national defense needs or a worsening of the economy, it
is my current intention to advocate a program of expenditures which, including revenues from
a stimulation of the economy, will not of and by themselves unbalance the earlier Budget.

However, we will do what must be done. For our national household is cluttered with unfinished
and neglected tasks. Our cities are being engulfed in squalor. Twelve long years after Congress
declared our goal to be "a decent home and a suitable environment for every American family,"
we still have 25 million Americans living in substandard homes. A new housing program under
a new Housing and Urban Affairs Department will be needed this year.

Our classrooms contain 2 million more children than they can properly have room for, taught
by 90,000 teachers not properly qualified to teach. One third of our most promising high school
graduates are financially unable to continue the development of their talents. The war babies
of the 1940's, who overcrowded our schools in the 1950's, are now descending in 1960 upon our
colleges--with two college students for every one, ten years from now--and our colleges are
ill prepared. We lack the scientists, the engineers and the teachers our world obligations
require. We have neglected oceanography, saline water conversion, and the basic research that
lies at the root of all progress. Federal grants for both higher and public school education
can no longer be delayed.

Medical research has achieved new wonders--but these wonders are too often beyond the reach
of too many people, owing to a lack of income (particularly among the aged), a lack of hospital
beds, a lack of nursing homes and a lack of doctors and dentists. Measures to provide health
care for the aged under Social Security, and to increase the supply of both facilities and
personnel, must be undertaken this year.

