Metaphysics may be defined as an inquiry concerning those things belonging to, or connected
with, the internal nature of man.

It is said that mind produces motion; and it might as well have been said, that motion produces
mind.

III--DIFFICULTY OF ANALYSING THE HUMAN MIND

If it were possible that a person should give a faithful history of his being, from the earliest
epochs of his recollection, a picture would be presented such as the world has never contemplated
before. A mirror would be held up to all men in which they might behold their own recollections,
and, in dim perspective, their shadowy hopes and fears,--all that they dare not, or that, daring
and desiring, they could not expose to the open eyes of day. But thought can with difficulty
visit the intricate and winding chambers which it inhabits. It is like a river whose rapid
and perpetual stream flows outwards;--like one in dread who speeds through the recesses of
some haunted pile, and dares not look behind. The caverns of the mind are obscure, and shadowy;
or pervaded with a lustre, beautifully bright indeed, but shining not beyond their portals.
If it were possible to be where we have been, vitally and indeed--if, at the moment of our
presence there, we could define the results of our experience,--if the passage from sensation
to reflection--from a state of passive perception to voluntary contemplation, were not so dizzying
and so tumultuous, this attempt would be less difficult.

IV--HOW THE ANALYSIS SHOULD BE CARRIED ON

Most of the errors of philosophers have arisen from considering the human being in a point
of view too detailed and circumscribed He is not a moral, and an intellectual,--but also, and
pre-eminently, an imaginative being. His own mind is his law; his own mind is all things to
him. If we would arrive at any knowledge which should be serviceable from the practical conclusions
to which it leads, we ought to consider the mind of man and the universe as the great whole
on which to exercise our speculations. Here, above all, verbal disputes ought to be laid aside,
though this has long been their chosen field of battle. It imports little to inquire whether
thought be distinct from the objects of thought. The use of the words EXTERNAL and INTERNAL,
as applied to the establishment of this distinction, has been the symbol and the source of
much dispute. This is merely an affair of words, and as the dispute deserves, to say, that
when speaking of the objects of thought, we indeed only describe one of the forms of thought--or
that, speaking of thought, we only apprehend one of the operations of the universal system
of beings.

V--CATALOGUE OF THE PHENOMENA OF DREAMS, AS CONNECTING SLEEPING AND WAKING

1. Let us reflect on our infancy, and give as faithfully as possible a relation of the events
of sleep.

And first I am bound to present a faithful picture of my own peculiar nature relatively to
sleep. I do not doubt that were every individual to imitate me, it would be found that among
many circumstances peculiar to their individual nature, a sufficiently general resemblance
would be found to prove the connexion existing between those peculiarities and the most universal
phenomena. I shall employ caution, indeed, as to the facts which I state, that they contain
nothing false or exaggerated. But they contain no more than certain elucidations of my own
nature; concerning the degree in which it resembles, or differs from, that of others, I am
by no means accurately aware. It is sufficient, however, to caution the reader against drawing
general inferences from particular instances.

I omit the general instances of delusion in fever or delirium, as well as mere dreams considered
in themselves. A delineation of this subject, however inexhaustible and interesting, is to
be passed over. What is the connexion of sleeping and of waking?

2. I distinctly remember dreaming three several times, between intervals of two or more years,
the same precise dream.  It was not so much what is ordinarily called a dream; the single image,
unconnected with all other images, of a youth who was educated at the same school with myself,
presented itself in sleep. Even now, after the lapse of many years, I can never hear the name
of this youth, without the three places where I dreamed of him presenting themselves distinctly
to my mind.

3. In dreams, images acquire associations peculiar to dreaming; so that the idea of a particular
house, when it recurs a second time in dreams, will have relation with the idea of the same
house, in the first time, of a nature entirely different from that which the house excites,
when seen or thought of in relation to waking ideas.

4. I have beheld scenes, with the intimate and unaccountable connexion of which with the obscure
parts of my own nature, I have been irresistibly impressed. I have beheld a scene which has
produced no unusual effect on my thoughts. After the lapse of many years I have dreamed of
this scene. It has hung on my memory, it has haunted my thoughts, at intervals, with the pertinacity
of an object connected with human affections. I have visited this scene again. Neither the
dream could be dissociated from the landscape, nor the landscape from the dream, nor feelings,
such as neither singly could have awakened, from both.

But the most remarkable event of this nature, which ever occurred to me, happened five years
ago at Oxford. I was walking with a friend, in the neighbourhood of that city, engaged in earnest
and interesting conversation. We suddenly turned the corner of a lane, and the view, which
its high banks and hedges had concealed, presented itself. The view consisted of a wind-mill,
standing in one among many plashy meadows, inclosed with stone walls; the irregular and broken
ground, between the wall and the road on which we stood; a long low hill behind the windmill,
and a grey covering of uniform cloud spread over the evening sky. It was that season when the
last leaf had just fallen from the scant and stunted ash. The scene surely was a common scene;
the season and the hour little calculated to kindle lawless thought; it was a tame uninteresting
assemblage of objects, such as would drive the imagination for refuge in serious and sober
talk, to the evening fireside, and the dessert of winter fruits and wine. The effect which
it produced on me was not such as could have been expected. I suddenly remembered to have seen
that exact scene in some dream of long--. [Footnote: Here I was obliged to leave off, overcome
by thrilling horror.]

[1815; publ. 1840]

SPECULATIONS ON MORALS

I--PLAN OF A TREATISE ON MORALS

That great science which regards nature and the operations of the human mind, is popularly
divided into Morals and Metaphysics. The latter relates to a just classification, and the assignment
of distinct names to its ideas; the former regards simply the determination of that arrangement
of them which produces the greatest and most solid happiness. It is admitted that a virtuous
or moral action, is that action which, when considered in all its accessories and consequences,
is fitted to produce the highest pleasure to the greatest number of sensitive beings. The laws
according to which all pleasure, since it cannot be equally felt by all sensitive beings, ought
to be distributed by a voluntary agent, are reserved for a separate chapter.

The design of this little treatise is restricted to the development of the elementary principles
of morals. As far as regards that purpose, metaphysical science will be treated merely so far
as a source of negative truth; whilst morality will be considered as a science, respecting
which we can arrive at positive conclusions.

The misguided imaginations of men have rendered the ascertaining of what IS NOT TRUE, the principal
direct service which metaphysical science can bestow upon moral science. Moral science itself
is the doctrine of the voluntary actions of man, as a sentient and social being. These actions
depend on the thoughts in his mind. But there is a mass of popular opinion, from which the
most enlightened persons are seldom wholly free, into the truth or falsehood of which it is
incumbent on us to inquire, before we can arrive at any firm conclusions as to the conduct
which we ought to pursue in the regulation of our own minds, or towards our fellow beings;
or before we can ascertain the elementary laws, according to which these thoughts, from which
these actions flow, are originally combined.

The object of the forms according to which human society is administered, is the happiness
of the individuals composing the communities which they regard, and these forms are perfect
or imperfect in proportion to the degree in which they promote this end.

This object is not merely the quantity of happiness enjoyed by individuals as sensitive beings,
but the mode in which it should be distributed among them as social beings. It is not enough,
if such a coincidence can be conceived as possible, that one person or class of persons should
enjoy the highest happiness, whilst another is suffering a disproportionate degree of misery.
It is necessary that the happiness produced by the common efforts, and preserved by the common
care, should be distributed according to the just claims of each individual; if not, although
the quantity produced should be the same, the end of society would remain unfulfilled. The
object is in a compound proportion to the quantity of happiness produced, and the correspondence
of the mode in which it is distributed, to the elementary feelings of man as a social being.

The disposition in an individual to promote this object is called virtue; and the two constituent
parts of virtue, benevolence and justice, are correlative with these two great portions of
the only true object of all voluntary actions of a human being. Benevolence is the desire to
be the author of good, and justice the apprehension of the manner in which good ought to be done.

Justice and benevolence result from the elementary laws of the human mind.

CHAPTER I ON THE NATURE OF VIRTUE

SECT. 1. General View of the Nature and Objects of Virtue.--2.  The Origin and Basis of Virtue,
as founded on the Elementary Principles of Mind.--3. The Laws which flow from the nature of
Mind regulating the application of those principles to human actions;--4. Virtue, a possible
attribute of man.

We exist in the midst of a multitude of beings like ourselves, upon whose happiness most of
our actions exert some obvious and decisive influence.

The regulation of this influence is the object of moral science. We know that we are susceptible
of receiving painful or pleasurable impressions of greater or less intensity and duration.
That is called good which produces pleasure; that is called evil which produces pain. These
are general names, applicable to every class of causes, from which an overbalance of pain or
pleasure may result. But when a human being is the active instrument of generating or diffusing
happiness, the principle through which it is most effectually instrumental to that purpose,
is called virtue. And benevolence, or the desire to be the author of good, united with justice,
or an apprehension of the manner in which that good is to be done, constitutes virtue.

But wherefore should a man be benevolent and just? The immediate emotions of his nature, especially
in its most inartificial state, prompt him to inflict pain, and to arrogate dominion. He desires
to heap superfluities to his own store, although others perish with famine. He is propelled
to guard against the smallest invasion of his own liberty, though he reduces others to a condition
of the most pitiless servitude. He is revengeful, proud and selfish. Wherefore should he curb
these propensities?

It is inquired, for what reason a human being should engage in procuring the happiness, or
refrain from producing the pain of another? When a reason is required to prove the necessity
of adopting any system of conduct, what is it that the objector demands? He requires proof
of that system of conduct being such as will most effectually promote the happiness of mankind.
To demonstrate this, is to render a moral reason. Such is the object of virtue.

A common sophism, which, like many others, depends on the abuse of a metaphorical expression
to a literal purpose, has produced much of the confusion which has involved the theory of morals.
It is said that no person is bound to be just or kind, if, on his neglect, he should fail to
incur some penalty. Duty is obligation. There can be no obligation without an obliger. Virtue
is a law, to which it is the will of the lawgiver that we should conform; which will we should
in no manner be bound to obey, unless some dreadful punishment were attached to disobedience.
This is the philosophy of slavery and superstition.

In fact, no person can be BOUND or OBLIGED, without some power preceding to bind and oblige.
If I observe a man bound hand and foot, I know that some one bound him. But if I observe him
returning self-satisfied from the performance of some action, by which he has been the willing
author of extensive benefit, I do not infer that the anticipation of hellish agonies, or the
hope of heavenly reward, has constrained him to such an act.

       .      .      .      .      .       .       .

It remains to be stated in what manner the sensations which constitute the basis of virtue
originate in the human mind; what are the laws which it receives there; how far the principles
of mind allow it to be an attribute of a human being; and, lastly, what is the probability
of persuading mankind to adopt it as a universal and systematic motive of conduct.

BENEVOLENCE

There is a class of emotions which we instinctively avoid. A human being, such as is man considered
in his origin, a child a month old, has a very imperfect consciousness of the existence of
other natures resembling itself. All the energies of its being are directed to the extinction
of the pains with which it is perpetually assailed. At length it discovers that it is surrounded
by natures susceptible of sensations similar to its own. It is very late before children attain
to this knowledge. If a child observes, without emotion, its nurse or its mother suffering
acute pain, it is attributable rather to ignorance than insensibility. Directions for laboratory
work by the student are published in a separate volume.

While the authors believe that the most important function of the elementary text is to develop
the principles of the science, they recognize the importance of some discussion of the practical
application of these principles to our everyday life. Considerable space is therefore devoted
to this phase of chemistry. The teacher should supplement this discussion whenever possible
by having the class visit different factories where chemical processes are employed.

Although this text is now for the first time offered to teachers of
elementary chemistry, it has nevertheless been used by a number of
teachers during the past three years. The inhabitant of a highly civilized community
will more acutely sympathize with the sufferings and enjoyments of others, than the inhabitant
of a society of a less degree of civilization. He who shall have cultivated his intellectual
powers by familiarity with the highest specimens of poetry and philosophy, will usually sympathize
more than one engaged in the less refined functions of manual labour. Every one has experience
of the fact, that to sympathize with the sufferings of another, is to enjoy a transitory oblivion
of his own.

The mind thus acquires, by exercise, a habit, as it were, of perceiving and abhorring evil,
however remote from the immediate sphere of sensations with which that individual mind is conversant.
Imagination or mind employed in prophetically imaging forth its objects, is that faculty of
human nature on which every gradation of its progress, nay, every, the minutest, change, depends.
Pain or pleasure, if subtly analysed, will be found to consist entirely in prospect. The only
distinction between the selfish man and the virtuous man is, that the imagination of the former
is confined within a narrow limit, whilst that of the latter embraces a comprehensive circumference.
In this sense, wisdom and virtue may be said to be inseparable, and criteria of each other.
Selfishness is the offspring of ignorance and mistake; it is the portion of unreflecting infancy,
and savage solitude, or of those whom toil or evil occupations have blunted or rendered torpid;
disinterested benevolence is the product of a cultivated imagination, and has an intimate connexion
with all the arts which add ornament, or dignity, or power, or stability to the social state
of man. Virtue is thus entirely a refinement of civilized life; a creation of the human mind;
or, rather, a combination which it has made, according to elementary rules contained within
itself, of the feelings suggested by the relations established between man and man.

All the theories which have refined and exalted humanity, or those which have been devised
as alleviations of its mistakes and evils, have been based upon the elementary emotions of
disinterestedness, which we feel to constitute the majesty of our nature. Patriotism, as it
existed in the ancient republics, was never, as has been supposed, a calculation of personal
advantages. When Mutius Scaevola thrust his hand into the burning coals, and Regulus returned
to Carthage, and Epicharis sustained the rack silently, in the torments of which she knew that
she would speedily perish, rather than betray the conspirators to the tyrant [Footnote: Tacitus.];
these illustrious persons certainly made a small estimate of their private interest. If it
be said that they sought posthumous fame; instances are not wanting in history which prove
that men have even defied infamy for the sake of good. But there is a great error in the world
with respect to the selfishness of fame. It is certainly possible that a person should seek
distinction as a medium of personal gratification. But the love of fame is frequently no more
than a desire that the feelings of others should confirm, illustrate, and sympathize with,
our own. In this respect it is allied with all that draws us out of ourselves. It is the 'last
infirmity of noble minds'. Chivalry was likewise founded on the theory of self-sacrifice. Love
possesses so extraordinary a power over the human heart, only because disinterestedness is
united with the natural propensities. These propensities themselves are comparatively impotent
in cases where the imagination of pleasure to be given, as well as to be received, does not
enter into the account. Let it not be objected that patriotism, and chivalry, and sentimental
love, have been the fountains of enormous mischief. They are cited only to establish the proposition
that, according to the elementary principles of mind, man is capable of desiring and pursuing
good for its own sake.

JUSTICE

The benevolent propensities are thus inherent in the human mind. We are impelled to seek the
happiness of others. We experience a satisfaction in being the authors of that happiness. Everything
that lives is open to impressions or pleasure and pain. We are led by our benevolent propensities
to regard every human being indifferently with whom we come in contact. They have preference
only with respect to those who offer themselves most obviously to our notice. Human beings
are indiscriminating and blind; they will avoid inflicting pain, though that pain should be
attended with eventual benefit; they will seek to confer pleasure without calculating the mischief
that may result. They benefit one at the expense of many.

There is a sentiment in the human mind that regulates benevolence in its application as a principle
of action. This is the sense of justice. Justice, as well as benevolence, is an elementary
law of human nature. It is through this principle that men are impelled to distribute any means
of pleasure which benevolence may suggest the communication of to others, in equal portions
among an equal number of applicants. If ten men are shipwrecked on a desert island, they distribute
whatever subsistence may remain to them, into equal portions among themselves. If six of them
conspire to deprive the remaining four of their share, their conduct is termed unjust.

The existence of pain has been shown to be a circumstance which the human mind regards with
dissatisfaction, and of which it desires the cessation. It is equally according to its nature
to desire that the advantages to be enjoyed by a limited number of persons should be enjoyed
equally by all. This proposition is supported by the evidence of indisputable facts. Tell some
ungarbled tale of a number of persons being made the victims of the enjoyments of one, and
he who would appeal in favour of any system which might produce such an evil to the primary
emotions of our nature, would have nothing to reply. Let two persons, equally strangers, make
application for some benefit in the possession of a third to bestow, and to which he feels
that they have an equal claim. They are both sensitive beings; pleasure and pain affect them alike.

CHAPTER II

It is foreign to the general scope of this little treatise to encumber a simple argument by
controverting any of the trite objections of habit or fanaticism. But there are two; the first,
the basis of all political mistake, and the second, the prolific cause and effect of religious
error, which it seems useful to refute.

First, it is inquired, 'Wherefore should a man be benevolent and just?' The answer has been
given in the preceding chapter.

If a man persists to inquire why he ought to promote the happiness of mankind, he demands a
mathematical or metaphysical reason for a moral action. The absurdity of this scepticism is
more apparent, but not less real than the exacting a moral reason for a mathematical or metaphysical
fact. If any person should refuse to admit that all the radii of a circle are of equal length,
or that human actions are necessarily determined by motives, until it could be proved that
these radii and these actions uniformly tended to the production of the greatest general good,
who would not wonder at the unreasonable and capricious association of his ideas?

The writer of a philosophical treatise may, I imagine, at this advanced era of human intellect,
be held excused from entering into a controversy with those reasoners, if such there are, who
would claim an exemption from its decrees in favour of any one among those diversified systems
of obscure opinion respecting morals, which, under the name of religions, have in various ages
and countries prevailed among mankind. Besides that if, as these reasoners have pretended,
eternal torture or happiness will ensue as the consequence of certain actions, we should be
no nearer the possession of a standard to determine what actions were right and wrong, even
if this pretended revelation, which is by no means the case, had furnished us with a complete
catalogue of them. The character of actions as virtuous or vicious would by no means be determined
alone by the personal advantage or disadvantage of each moral agent individually considered.
Indeed, an action is often virtuous in proportion to the greatness of the personal calamity
which the author willingly draws upon himself by daring to perform it. It is because an action
produces an overbalance of pleasure or pain to the greatest number of sentient beings, and
not merely because its consequences are beneficial or injurious to the author of that action,
that it is good or evil. Nay, this latter consideration has a tendency to pollute the purity
of virtue, inasmuch as it consists in the motive rather than in the consequences of an action.
A person who should labour for the happiness of mankind lest he should be tormented eternally
in Hell, would, with reference to that motive, possess as little claim to the epithet of virtuous,
as he who should torture, imprison, and burn them alive, a more usual and natural consequence
of such principles, for the sake of the enjoyments of Heaven.

My neighbour, presuming on his strength, may direct me to perform or to refrain from a particular
action; indicating a certain arbitrary penalty in the event of disobedience within power to
inflict. My action, if modified by his menaces, can no degree participate in virtue. He has
afforded me no criterion as to what is right or wrong. A king, or an assembly of men, may publish
a proclamation affixing any penalty to any particular action, but that is not immoral because
such penalty is affixed. Nothing is more evident than that the epithet of virtue is inapplicable
to the refraining from that action on account of the evil arbitrarily attached to it. If the
action is in itself beneficial, virtue would rather consist in not refraining from it, but
in firmly defying the personal consequences attached to its performance.

Some usurper of supernatural energy might subdue the whole globe to his power; he might possess
new and unheard-of resources for enduing his punishments with the most terrible attributes
or pain. The torments of his victims might be intense in their degree, and protracted to an
infinite duration. Still the 'will of the lawgiver' would afford no surer criterion as to what
actions were right or wrong. It would only increase the possible virtue of those who refuse
to become the instruments of his tyranny.

II--MORAL SCIENCE CONSISTS IN CONSIDERING THE DIFFERENCE, NOT THE RESEMBLANCE, OF PERSONS

The internal influence, derived from the constitution of the mind from which they flow, produces
that peculiar modification of actions, which makes them intrinsically good or evil.

To attain an apprehension of the importance of this distinction, let us visit, in imagination,
the proceedings of some metropolis. Consider the multitude of human beings who inhabit it,
and survey, in thought, the actions of the several classes into which they are divided. Their
obvious actions are apparently uniform: the stability of human society seems to be maintained
sufficiently by the uniformity of the conduct of its members, both with regard to themselves,
and with regard to others.  The labourer arises at a certain hour, and applies himself to the
task enjoined him. The functionaries of government and law are regularly employed in their
offices and courts. The trader holds a train of conduct from which he never deviates. The ministers
of religion employ an accustomed language, and maintain a decent and equable regard. The army
is drawn forth, the motions of every soldier are such as they were expected to be; the general
commands, and his words are echoed from troop to troop. The domestic actions of men are, for
the most part, undistinguishable one from the other, at a superficial glance. The actions which
are classed under the general appellation of marriage, education, friendship, &c., are perpetually
going on, and to a superficial glance, are similar one to the other.

But, if we would see the truth of things, they must be stripped of this fallacious appearance
of uniformity. In truth, no one action has, when considered in its whole extent, any essential
resemblance with any other. Each individual, who composes the vast multitude which we have
been contemplating, has a peculiar frame of mind, which, whilst the features of the great mass
of his actions remain uniform, impresses the minuter lineaments with its peculiar hues. Thus,
whilst his life, as a whole, is like the lives of other men, in detail, it is most unlike;
and the more subdivided the actions become; that is, the more they enter into that class which
have a vital influence on the happiness of others and his own, so much the more are they distinct
from those of other men. 

      DEFINITION: A mechanical mixture is one in
          which the constituents retain their original properties, no chemical
action having taken place when they were brought together.

~Chemical compounds.~ If iron filings and powdered sulphur are thoroughly ground together in
a mortar, a yellowish-green substance results. It might easily be
taken to be a new body; but as in the case of the iron and salt, the
ingredients can readily be separated. A magnet draws out the iron. These are the actions, and such as these, which make human life what it
is, and are the fountains of all the good and evil with which its entire surface is so widely
and impartially overspread; and though they are called minute, they are called so in compliance
with the blindness of those who cannot estimate their importance. It is in the due appreciating
the general effects of their peculiarities, and in cultivating the habit of acquiring decisive
knowledge respecting the tendencies arising out of them in particular cases, that the most
important part of moral science consists. The deepest abyss of these vast and multitudinous
caverns, it is necessary that we should visit.

This is the difference between social and individual man. Not that this distinction is to be
considered definite, or characteristic of one human being as compared with another; it denotes
rather two classes of agency, common in a degree to every human being. None is exempt, indeed,
from that species of influence which affects, as it were, the surface of his being, and gives
the specific outline to his conduct. Almost all that is ostensible submits to that legislature
created by the general representation of the past feelings of mankind--imperfect as it is from
a variety of causes, as it exists in the government, the religion, and domestic habits. Those
who do not nominally, yet actually, submit to the same power. The external features of their
conduct, indeed, can no more escape it, than the clouds can escape from the stream of the wind;
and his opinion, which he often hopes he has dispassionately secured from all contagion of
prejudice and vulgarity, would be found, on examination, to be the inevitable excrescence of
the very usages from which he vehemently dissents. Internally all is conducted otherwise; the
efficiency, the essence, the vitality of actions, derives its colour from what is no ways contributed
to from any external source. Like the plant which while it derives the accident of its size
and shape from the soil in which it springs, and is cankered, or distorted, or inflated, yet
retains those qualities which essentially divide it from all others; so that hemlock continues
to be poison, and the violet does not cease to emit its odour in whatever soil it may grow.

We consider our own nature too superficially. We look on all that in ourselves with which we
can discover a resemblance in others; and consider those resemblances as the materials of moral
knowledge. It is in the differences that it actually consists.

[1815; publ. 1840]

