IMPERIAL PURPLE

By

EDGAR SALTUS

CONTENTS

    I. That Woman
   II. Not a day passed that
  he did not sit several
   hours before his easel, trying to
    paint sunshine
   as it really is. Nobody
  in this busy world, however,
 took notice of
   his efforts or comprehended the pathos of old Melville's life, those
fifty years of bad luck. The Agony

I

THAT WOMAN

When the murder was done and the heralds shouted through the thick streets the passing of Caesar,
it was the passing of the republic they announced, the foundation of Imperial Rome.

There was a hush, then a riot which frightened a senate that frightened the world. Caesar was
adored. A man who could give millions away and sup on dry bread was apt to conquer, not provinces
alone, but hearts. Besides, he had begun well and his people had done their best. The House
of Julia, to which he belonged, descended, he declared, from Venus. The ancestry was less legendary
than typical. Cinna drafted a law giving him the right to marry as often as he chose. His mistresses
were queens. After the episodes in Gaul, when he entered Rome his legions warned the citizens
to have an eye on their wives. At seventeen he fascinated pirates. A shipload of the latter
had caught him and demanded twenty talents ransom. "Too little," said the lad; "I will give
you fifty, and impale you too," which he did, jesting with them meanwhile, reciting verses
of his own composition, calling them barbarians when they did not applaud, ordering them to
be quiet when he wished to sleep, captivating them by the effrontery of his assurance, and,
the ransom paid, slaughtering them as he had promised.

Tall, slender, not handsome, but superb and therewith so perfectly sent out that Cicero mistook
him for a fop from whom the republic had nothing to fear; splendidly lavish, exquisitely gracious,
he was born to charm, and his charm was such that it still subsists. Cato alone was unenthralled.
But Cato was never pleased; he laughed but once, and all Rome turned out to see him; he belonged
to an earlier day, to an austerer, perhaps to a better one, and it may be that in "that woman,"
as he called Caesar, his clearer vision discerned beneath the plumage of the peacock, the beak
and talons of the bird of prey. For they were there, and needed only a vote of the senate to
batten on nations of which the senate had never heard. Loan him an army, and "that woman" was
to give geography such a twist that today whoso says Caesar says history.

Was it this that Cato saw, or may it be that one of the oracles which had not ceased to speak
had told him of that coming night when he was to take his own life, fearful lest "that woman"
should overwhelm him with the magnificence of his forgiveness? Cato walks through history,
as he walked through the Forum, bare of foot--too severe to be simple, too obstinate to be
generous--the image of ancient Rome.

In Caesar there was nothing of this. He was wholly modern; dissolute enough for any epoch,
but possessed of virtues that his contemporaries could not spell. A slave tried to poison him.
Suetonius says he merely put the slave to death. The "merely" is to the point. Cato would have
tortured him first. After Pharsalus he forgave everyone. When severe, it was to himself. It
is true he turned over two million people into so many dead flies, their legs in the air, creating,
as Tacitus has it, a solitude which he described as Peace; but what antitheses may not be expected
in a man who, before the first century was begun, divined the fifth, and who in the Suevians--that
terrible people beside whom no nation could live--foresaw Attila!

Save in battle his health was poor. He was epileptic, his strength undermined by incessant
debauches; yet let a nation fancying him months away put on insurgent airs, and on that nation
he descended as the thunder does. In his campaigns time and again he overtook his own messengers.
A phantom in a ballad was not swifter than he. Simultaneously his sword flashed in Germany,
on the banks of the Adriatic, in that Ultima Thule where the Britons lived. From the depths
of Gaul he dominated Rome, and therewith he was penetrating impenetrable forests, trailing
legions as a torch trails smoke, erecting walls that a nation could not cross, turning soldiers
into marines, infantry into cavalry, building roads that are roads to-day, fighting with one
hand and writing an epic with the other, dictating love-letters, chronicles, dramas; finding
time to make a collection of witticisms; overturning thrones while he decorated Greece; mingling
initiate into orgies of the Druids, and, as the cymbals clashed, coquetting with those terrible
virgins who awoke the tempest; not only conquering, but captivating, transforming barbarians
into soldiers and those soldiers into senators, submitting three hundred nations and ransacking
Britannia for pearls for his mistresses' ears.

Each epoch has its secret, and each epoch-maker his own. Caesar's secret lay in the power he
had of projecting a soul into the ranks of an army, of making legions and their leader one.
Disobedience only he punished; anything else he forgave. After a victory his soldiery did what
they liked. He gave them arms, slaves to burnish them, women, feasts, sleep. They were his
comrades; he called them so; he wept at the death of any of them, and when they were frightened,
as they were in Gaul before they met the Germans, and in Africa before they encountered Juba,
Caesar frightened them still more. He permitted no questions, no making of wills. The cowards
could hide where they liked; his old guard, the Tenth, would do the work alone; or, threat
still more sinister, he would command a retreat. Ah, that, never! Fanaticism returned, the
legions begged to be punished.

Michelet says he would like to have seen him crossing Gaul, bareheaded, in the rain. It would
have been as interesting, perhaps, to have watched him beneath the shade of the velarium pleading
the cause of Masintha against the Numidian king. Before him was a crowd that covered not the
Forum alone, but the steps of the adjacent temples, the roofs of the basilicas, the arches
of Janus, one that extended remotely to the black walls of the Curia Hostilia beyond. And there,
on the rostrum, a musician behind him supplying the la from a flute, the air filled with gold
motes, Caesar, his toga becomingly adjusted, a jewelled hand extended, opened for the defence.
Presently, when through the exercise of that art of his which Cicero pronounced incomparable,
he felt that the sympathy of the audience was won, it would have been interesting, indeed,
to have heard him argue point after point--clearly, brilliantly, wittily; insulting the plaintiff
in poetic terms; consigning him gracefully to the infernal regions; accentuating a fictitious
and harmonious anger; drying his forehead without disarranging his hair; suffocating with the
emotions he evoked; displaying real tears, and with them a knowledge, not only of law, rhetoric,
philosophy, but of geometry, astronomy, ethics and the fine arts; blinding his hearers with
the coruscations of his erudition; stirring them with his tongue, as with the point of a sword,
until, as though abruptly possessed by an access of fury, he seized the plaintiff by the beard
and sent him spinning like a leaf which the wind had caught.

It would have bored no one either to have assisted at his triumph when he returned from Gaul,
when he returned after Spain, after Pharsalus, when he returned from Cleopatra's arms.

On that day the Via Sacra was curtained with silk. To the blare of twisted bugles there descended
to it from the turning at the hill a troop of musicians garmented in leather tunics, bonneted
with lions' heads. Behind them a hundred bulls, too fat to be troublesome, and decked for death,
bellowed musingly at the sacrifants, who, naked to the waist, a long-handled hammer on the
shoulder, maintained them with colored cords. To the rumble of wide wheels and the thunder
of spectators the prodigious booty passed, and with it triumphs of war, vistas of conquered
countries, pictures of battles, lists of the vanquished, symbols of cities that no longer were;
a stretch of ivory on which shone three words, each beginning with a V; images of gods disturbed,
the Rhine, the Rhone, the captive Ocean in massive gold; the glitter of three thousand crowns
offered to the dictator by the army and allies of Rome. Then came the standards of the republic,
a swarm of eagles, the size of pigeons, in polished silver upheld by lances which ensigns bore,
preceding the six hundred senators who marched in a body, their togas bordered with red, while
to the din of incessant insults, interminable files of prisoners passed, their wrists chained
to iron collars, which held their heads very straight, and to the rear a litter, in which crouched
the Vercingetorix of Gaul, a great moody giant, his menacing eyes nearly hidden in the tangles
of his tawny hair.

When they had gone the street was alive with explosions of brass, aflame with the burning red
cloaks of laureled lictors making way for the coming of Caesar. Four horses, harnessed abreast,
their manes dyed, their forelocks puffed, drew a high and wonderfully jewelled car; and there,
in the attributes and attitude of Jupiter Capitolinus, Caesar sat, blinking his tired eyes.
His face and arms were painted vermilion; above the Tyrian purple of his toga, above the gold
work and palms of his tunic, there oscillated a little ball in which there were charms against
Envy. On his head a wreath concealed his increasing baldness; along his left arm the sceptre
lay; behind him a boy admonished him noisily to remember he was man, while to the rear for
miles and miles there rang the laugh of trumpets, the click of castanets, the shouts of dancers,
the roar of the multitude, the tramp of legions, and the cry, caught up and repeated, "Io!
Triomphe!"

Presently, in the temple of the god of gods, side by side with the statue of Jupiter, Caesar
found his own statue with "Caesar, demi-god," at its base. The captive chiefs disappeared in
the Tullianum, and a herald called, "They have lived!" Through the squares jesters circulated,
polyglot and obscene; across the Tiber, in an artificial lake, the flotilla of Egypt fought
against that of Tyr; in the amphitheatre there was a combat of soldiers, infantry against cavalry,
one that indemnified those that had not seen the massacres in Thessaly and in Spain. There
were public feasts, gifts to everyone. Tables were set in the Forum, in the circuses and theatres.
Falernian circulated in amphorae, Chios in barrels. When the populace was gorged there were
the red feathers to enable it to gorge again. Of the Rome of Romulus there was nothing left
save the gaunt she-wolf, her wide lips curled at the descendants of her nursling.

Later, when in slippered feet Caesar wandered through those lovely gardens of his that lay
beyond the Tiber, it may be that he recalled a dream which had come to him as a lad; one which
concerned the submission of his mother; one which had disturbed him until the sooth-sayers
said: "The mother you saw is the earth, and you will be her master." And as the memory of the
dream returned, perhaps with it came the memory of the hour when as simple quaestor he had
wept at Gaddir before a statue that was there. Demi-god, yes; he was that. More, even; he was
dictator, but the dream was unfulfilled. There were the depths of Hither Asia, the mysteries
that lay beyond; there were the glimmering plains of the Caucasus; there were the Vistula and
the Baltic; the diadems of Cyrus and of Alexander defying his ambition yet, and what were triumphs
and divinity to one who would own the world!

It was this that preoccupied him. The immensity of his successes seemed petty and Rome very
small. Heretofore he had forgiven those who had opposed him. Presently his attitude changed,
and so subtly that it was the more humiliating; it was not that he no longer forgave, he disdained
to punish. His contempt was absolute. The senate made his office of pontifix maximus hereditary
and accorded the title of Imperator to his heirs. He snubbed the senate and the honors that
it brought. The senate was shocked. Composed of men whose fortunes he had made, the senate
was not only shocked, its education in ingratitude was complete. Already there had been murmurs.
Not content with disarranging the calendar, outlining an empire, drafting a code while planning
fresh beauties, new theatres, bilingual libraries, larger temples, grander gods, Caesar was
at work in the markets, in the kitchens of the gourmets, in the jewel-boxes of the virgins.
Liberty, visibly, was taking flight. Besides, the power concentrated in him might be so pleasantly
distributed. It was decided that Caesar was in the way. To put him out of it a pretext was
necessary.

One day the senate assembled at his command. They were to sign a decree creating him king.
In order not to, Suetonius says, they killed him, wounding each other in the effort, for Caesar
fought like the demon that he was, desisting only when he recognized Brutus, to whom, in Greek,
he muttered a reproach, and, draping his toga that he might fall with decency, sank backward,
his head covered, a few feet from the bronze wolf that stood, its ears pointed at the letters
S. P. Q. R. which decorated a frieze of the Curia.

Brutus turned to harangue the senate; it had fled. He went to the Forum to address the people;
there was no one. Rome was strangely empty. Doors were barricaded, windows closed. Through
the silent streets gladiators prowled. Night came, and with it whispering groups. The groups
thickened, voices mounted. Caesar's will had been read. He had left his gardens to the people,
a gift to every citizen, his wealth and power to his butchers. The body, which two slaves had
removed, an arm hanging from the litter, had never been as powerfully alive. Caesar reigned
then as never before. A mummer mouthed:

    "I brought them life, they gave me death."

And willingly would the mob have made Rome the funeral pyre of their idol. In the sky a comet
appeared. It was his soul on its way to Olympus.

II

CONJECTURAL ROME

"I received Rome in brick; I shall leave it in marble," said Augustus, who was fond of fine
phrases, a trick he had caught from Vergil. And when he looked from his home on the Palatine
over the glitter of the Forum and the glare of the Capitol to the new and wonderful precinct
which extended to the Field of Mars, there was a stretch of splendor which sanctioned the boast.
The city then was very vast. A peculiar gloomy atmosphere pervaded the room, almost sickening
in its frugality, and as its skylight lay north, the sun never touched it. It had something chilly
and uncanny about it even in summer.

The floor was bare, furniture there was none, except an old worn-out kitchen table and chair,
an easel and an old box which served as a bookcase for a few ragged unbound volumes. The comfort
of a bed was an unknown luxury to him; he slept on the floor, on a mattress which in daytime was
hidden with his scant wardrobe and cooking utensils in a corner, behind a gray faded curtain. His
pictures, simple pieces of canvas with tattered edges, nailed to the four walls, leaving hardly
an inch uncovered, were the only decoration and furnished a most peculiar wall paper, which
heightened the dreariness of the room.

Beyond were gray quadrangular buildings, the stomach of Rome, through which, each noon, ediles
passed, verifying the prices, the weights and measures of the market men, examining the fish
and meats, the enormous cauliflowers that came from the suburbs, Veronese carrots, Arician
pears, stout thrushes, suckling pigs, eggs embedded in grass, oysters from Baiae, boxes of
onions and garlic mixed, mountains of poppies, beans and fennel, destroying whatever had ceased
to be fresh and taxing that which was.

On the Via Sacra were the shops frequented by ladies; bazaars where silks and xylons were to
be had, essences and unguents, travelling boxes of scented wood, switches of yellow hair, useful
drugs such as hemlock, aconite, mandragora and cantharides; the last thing of Ovid's and the
improper little novels that came from Greece.

On the Appian Way, through green afternoons and pink arcades, fashion strolled. There wealth
passed in its chariots, smart young men that smelt of cinnamon instead of war, nobles, matrons,
cocottes.

At the other end of the city, beyond the menagerie of the Pantheon, was the Field of Mars,
an open-air gymnasium, where every form of exercise was to be had, even to that simple promenade
in which the Romans delighted, and which in Caesar's camp so astonished the Verronians that
they thought the promenaders crazy and offered to lead them to their tents. There was tennis
for those who liked it; racquets, polo, football, quoits, wrestling, everything apt to induce
perspiration and prepare for the hour when a gong of bronze announced the opening of the baths--those
wonderful baths, where the Roman, his slaves about him, after passing through steam and water
and the hands of the masseur, had every hair plucked from his arms, legs and armpits; his flesh
rubbed down with nard, his limbs polished with pumice; and then, wrapped in a scarlet robe,
lined with fur, was sent home in a litter. "Strike them in the face!" cried Caesar at Pharsalus,
when the young patricians made their charge; and the young patricians, who cared more for their
looks than they did for victory, turned and fled.

It was to the Field of Mars that Agrippa came, to whom Rome owed the Pantheon and the demand
for a law which should inhibit the private ownership of a masterpiece. There, too, his eunuchs
about him, Mecaenas lounged, companioned by Varus, by Horace and the mime Bathylle, all of
whom he was accustomed to invite to that lovely villa of his which overlooked the blue Sabinian
hills, and where suppers were given such as those which Petronius has described so alertly
and so well.

In the hall like that of Mecaenas', one divided against itself, the upper half containing the
couches and tables, the other reserved for the service and the entertainments that follow,
the ceiling was met by columns, the walls hidden by panels of gems. On a frieze twelve pictures,
surmounted by the signs of the zodiac, represented the dishes of the different months. Beneath
the bronze beds and silver tables mosaics were set in imitation of food that had fallen and
had not been swept away. And there, in white ungirdled tunics, the head and neck circled with
coils of amaranth--the perfume of which in opening the pores neutralizes the fumes of wine--the
guests lay, fanned by boys, whose curly hair they used for napkins. Under the supervision of
butlers the courses were served on platters so large that they covered the tables; sows' breasts
with Lybian truffles; dormice baked in poppies and honey, peacock-tongues flavored with cinnamon;
oysters stewed in garum--a sauce made of the intestines of fish--sea-wolves from the Baltic;
sturgeons from Rhodes; fig-peckers from Samos; African snails; pale beans in pink lard; and
a yellow pig cooked after the Troan fashion, from which, when carved, hot sausages fell and
live thrushes flew. Therewith was the mulsum, a cup made of white wine, nard, roses, absinthe
and honey; the delicate sweet wines of Greece; and crusty Falernian of the year six hundred
and thirty-two. As the cups circulated, choirs entered, chanting sedately the last erotic song;
a clown danced on the top of a ladder, which he maintained upright as he danced, telling meanwhile
untellable stories to the frieze; and host and guests, unvociferously, as good breeding dictates,
chatted through the pauses of the service; discussed the disadvantages of death, the value
of Noevian iambics, the disgrace of Ovid, banished because of Livia's eyes.

Such was the Rome of Augustus. "Caesar," cried a mime to him one day, "do you know that it
is important for you that the people should be interested in Bathylle and in myself?"

The mime was right. The sovereign of Rome was not the Caesar, nor yet the aristocracy. The
latter was dead. It had been banished by barbarian senators, by barbarian gods; it had died
twice, at Pharsalus, at Philippi; it was the people that was sovereign, and it was important
that that sovereign should be amused--flattered, too, and fed. For thirty years not a Roman
of note had died in his bed; not one but had kept by him a slave who should kill him when his
hour had come; anarchy had been continuous; but now Rome was at rest and its sovereign wished
to laugh. Made up of every nation and every vice, the universe was ransacked for its entertainment.
The mountain sent its lions, the desert giraffes; there were boas from the jungles, bulls from
the plains, and hippopotami from the waters of the Nile. Into the arenas patricians descended;
in the amphitheatre there were criminals from Gaul; in the Forum philosophers from Greece.
On the stage, there were tragedies, pantomimes and farce; there were races in the circus, and
in the sacred groves girls with the Orient in their eyes and slim waists that swayed to the
crotals. For the thirst of the sovereign there were aqueducts, and for its hunger Africa, Egypt,
Sicily contributed grain. Syria unveiled her altars, Persia the mystery and magnificence of
her gods.

Such was Rome. Augustus was less noteworthy; so unnecessary even that every student must regret
Actium, Antony's defeat, the passing of Caesar's dream. For Antony was made for conquests;
it was he who, fortune favoring, might have given the world to Rome. A splendid, an impudent
bandit, first and foremost a soldier, calling himself a descendant of Hercules whom he resembled;
hailed at Ephesus as Bacchus, in Egypt as Osiris; Asiatic in lavishness, and Teuton in his
capacity for drink; vomiting in the open Forum, and making and unmaking kings; weaving with
that viper of the Nile a romance which is history; passing initiate into the inimitable life,
it would have been curious to have watched him that last night when the silence was stirred
by the hum of harps, the cries of bacchantes bearing his tutelary god back to the Roman camp,
while he said farewell to love, to empire and to life.

Augustus resembled him not at all. He was a colorless monarch; an emperor in everything but
dignity, a prince in everything but grace; a tactician, not a soldier; a superstitious braggart,
afraid of nothing but danger; seducing women to learn their husband's secrets; exiling his
daughter, not because she had lovers, but because she had other lovers than himself; exiling
Ovid because of Livia, who in the end poisoned her prince, and adroitly, too; illiterate, blundering
of speech, and coarse of manner--a hypocrite and a comedian in one--so guileful and yet so
stupid that while a credulous moribund ordered the gods to be thanked that Augustus survived
him, the people publicly applied to him an epithet which does not look well in print.

After Philippi and the suicide of Brutus; after Actium and Antony's death, for the first time
in ages, the gates of the Temple of Janus were closed. There was peace in the world; but it
was the sword of Caesar, not of Augustus, that brought the insurgents to book. At each of the
victories he was either asleep or ill. At the time of battle there was always some god warning
him to be careful. The battle won, he was brave enough, considerate even. A father and son
begged for mercy. He promised forgiveness to the son on condition that he killed his father.
The son accepted and did the work; then he had the son despatched. A prisoner begged but for
a grave. "The vultures will see to it," he answered. When at the head of Caesar's legions,
he entered Rome to avenge the latter's death, he announced beforehand that he would imitate
neither Caesar's moderation nor Sylla's cruelty. There would be only a few proscriptions, and
a price--and what a price, liberty!--was placed on the heads of hundreds of senators and thousands
of knights. And these people, who had more slaves than they knew by sight, slaves whom they
tossed alive to fatten fish, slaves to whom they affected never to speak, and who were crucified
did they so much as sneeze in their presence--at the feet of these slaves they rolled, imploring
them not to deliver them up. Now and then a slave was merciful; Augustus never.

Successes such as these made him ambitious. Having vanquished with the sword, he tried the
pen. "You may grant the freedom of the city to your barbarians," said a wit to him one day,
"but not to your solecisms." Undeterred he began a tragedy entitled "Ajax," and discovering
his incompetence, gave it up. "And what has become of Ajax?" a parasite asked. "Ajax threw
himself on a sponge," replied Augustus, whose father, it is to be regretted, did not do likewise.
Nevertheless, it were pleasant to have assisted at his funeral.

A couch of ivory and gold, ten feet high, draped with purple, stood for a week in the atrium
of the palace. Within the couch, hidden from view, the body of the emperor lay, ravaged by
poison. Above was a statue, recumbent, in wax, made after his image and dressed in imperial
robes. Near by a little slave with a big fan protected the statue from flies. Each day physicians
came, gazed at the closed wax mouth, and murmured, "He is worse." In the vestibule was a pot
of burning ilex, and stretching out through the portals a branch of cypress warned the pontiffs
from the contamination of the sight of death.

At high noon on the seventh day the funeral crossed the city. First were the flaming torches;
the statues of the House of Octavia; senators in blue; knights in scarlet; magistrates; lictors;
the pick of the praetorian guard. Then, to the alternating choruses of boys and girls, the
rotting body passed down the Sacred Way. Behind it Tiberius in a travelling-cloak, his hands
unringed, marched meditating on the curiosities of life, while to the rear there straggled
a troop of dancing satyrs, led by a mime dressed in resemblance of Augustus, whose defects
he caricatured, whose vices he parodied and on whom the surging crowd closed in.

On the Field of Mars the pyre had been erected, a great square structure of resinous wood,
the interior filled with coke and sawdust, the exterior covered with illuminated cloths, on
which, for base, a tower rose, three storeys high. Into the first storey flowers and perfumes
were thrown, into the second the couch was raised, then a torch was applied. 

One day, when one of his large pictures was exhibited in the show window of a fashionable art
store, a rich collector stepped out of his carriage and, entering
the store, asked, "How much do you want for the Inness you have in
the window?"

III

FABULOUS FIELDS

Mention Tiberius, and the name evokes a taciturn tyrant, devising in the crypts of a palace
infamies so monstrous that to describe them new words were coined.

In the Borghese collection Tiberius is rather good-looking than otherwise, not an Antinous
certainly, but manifestly a dreamer; one whose eyes must have been almost feline in their abstraction,
and in the corners of whose mouth you detect pride, no doubt, but melancholy as well. The pride
was congenital, the melancholy was not.

Under Tiberius there was quiet, a romancer wrote, and the phrase in its significance passed
into legend. During the dozen or more years that he ruled in Rome, his common sense was obvious.
The Tiber overflowed, the senate looked for a remedy in the Sibyline Books. Tiberius set some
engineers to work. A citizen swore by Augustus and swore falsely. The senate sought to punish
him, not for perjury but for sacrilege. It is for Augustus to punish, said Tiberius. The senate
wanted to name a month after him. Tiberius declined. "Supposing I were the thirteenth Caesar,
what would you do?" For years he reigned, popular and acclaimed, caring the while nothing for
popularity and less for pomp. Sagacious, witty even, believing perhaps in little else than
fate and mathematics, yet maintaining the institutions of the land, striving resolutely for
the best, outwardly impassable and inwardly mobile, he was a man and his patience had bounds.
There were conspirators in the atrium, there was death in the courtier's smile; and finding
his favorites false, his life threatened, danger at every turn, his conception of rulership
changed. Where moderation had been suddenly there gleamed the axe.

Tacitus, always dramatic, states that at the time terror devastated the city. It so happened
that under the republic there was a law against whomso diminished the majesty of the people.
The republic was a god, one that had its temple, its priests, its altars. When the republic
succumbed, its divinity passed to the emperor; he became Jupiter's peer, and, as such, possessed
of a majesty which it was sacrilege to slight. Consulted on the subject, Tiberius replied that
the law must be observed. Originally instituted in prevention of offences against the public
good, it was found to change into a crime, a word, a gesture or a look. It was a crime to undress
before a statue of Augustus, to mention his name in the latrinae, to carry a coin with his
image into a lupanar. The punishment was death. Of the property of the accused, a third went
to the informer, the rest to the state. Then abruptly terror stalked abroad. No one was safe
except the obscure, and it was the obscure that accused. Once an accused accused his accuser;
the latter went mad. There was but one refuge--the tomb. If the accused had time to kill himself
before he was tried, his property was safe from seizure and his corpse from disgrace. Suicide
became endemic in Rome. Never among the rich were orgies as frenetic as then. There was a breathless
chase after delights, which the summons, "It is time to die," might at any moment interrupt.

Tiberius meanwhile had gone from Rome. It was then his legend began. He was represented living
at Capri in a collection of twelve villas, each of which was dedicated to a particular form
of lust, and there with the paintings of Parrhasius for stimulant the satyr lounged. He was
then an old man; his life had been passed in public, his conduct unreproved. If no one becomes
suddenly base, it is rare for a man of seventy to become abruptly vile. "Whoso," Sakya Muni
announced--"whoso discovers that grief comes from affection, will retire into the jungles and
there remain." Tiberius had made the discovery. The jungles he selected were the gardens by
the sea. And in those gardens, gossip represented him devising new forms of old vice. On the
subject every doubt is permissible, and even otherwise, morality then existed in but one form,
one which the entire nation observed, wholly, absolutely; that form was patriotism. Chastity
was expected of the vestal, but of no one else. The matrons had certain traditions to maintain,
certain appearances to preserve, but otherwise morality was unimagined and matrimony unpopular.

