Always keep all your sleeping things together in your bed roll, and your husband's things together
in his bed bundle. It will save you many a sigh and weary hunt in the dark and cold. The tent
and such things, you can afford to leave to your guide or to luck. If one wishes to provide
a tent, brown canvas is far preferable to white. It does not make a glare of light, nor does
it stand out aggressively in the landscape. You have your little nightly kingdom waiting for
you and can sleep cosily if nothing else is provided. Whenever possible, get your bed blown
up and your sleeping bags in order on top and your sleeping things together where you can put
your hands on them during the daylight, or if that is impossible, make it the first thing you
do when you make camp, while the cook is getting supper. Then, as you eat supper and sit near
the camp fire to keep warm, you have the sweet consciousness that over there, in the blackness
is a snug little nest all ready to receive your tired self. Bay windows are popular.

We saw one small house with four double and two single ones, giving it an air of impertinent
curiosity, as the dwellers therein could look out from every possible direction. The ancient
dormer windows on the roofs have given place to these queer bulging ones, which, in Halifax
especially, are set three in a row on the gray shingles, and bear
ludicrous resemblance to gigantic bee-hives.

In some of the shops, at the post office and railroad station, our
money is taken at a small discount; but in many of the shops they
allow us full value for it.

In one the proprietor tells us of the sensation caused here once by the failure of a Canadian
bank, and the surprise of the town's-people--whose faith seemed shaken
in all such institutions-- when he continued to take United States
bank bills. It is fitted with gun-carrying case of the same leather and saddle-bag on the
skirt of each side, and has a leather roll at the back strapped on to carry an extra jacket
and a slicker. (A rain-coat is most important. I use a small size of the New York mounted policemen's
mackintosh, made by Goodyear. It opens front and back and has a protecting cape for the hands.)
The saddle has also small pommel bags in which are matches, compass, leather thongs, knife
and a whistle (this last in case I get lost), and there are rings and strings in which other
bundles such as lunch can be attached while on the march. A horsehair army saddle blanket saves
the animal's back. Nimrod's saddle is exactly like mine, only with longer and larger stirrups.

You have now your personal things for eating, sleeping and riding. It remains but to clothe
yourself and you are ready to start. Provide yourself with two or three champagne baskets covered
with brown waterproof canvas, with stout handles at each end and two leather straps going round
the basket to buckle the lid down, and a stronger strap going lengthwise over all. Or if you
do not mind a little more expense, telescopes made of leatheroid, about 22 inches long, 11
inches wide and 9 inches deep, with the lower corners rounded so they will not stick into the
horse, and fitted with straps and handles, make the ideal travelling case; for they can be
shipped from place to place on the railroad and can be packed, one on each side of a horse.
They are much to be preferred to the usual Klondike bag for convenience in packing and unpacking
one's things and in protecting them.

It is hardly necessary to say that clothes have to be kept down to the limit of comfort. Into
the telescopes or baskets should go warm flannels, extra pair of heavy boots, several flannel
shirt waists, extra riding habit and bloomers, fancy neck ribbons and a belt or two--for why
look worse than your best at any time?--a long warm cloak and a chamois jacket for cold weather,
snow overshoes, warm gloves and mittens too, and some woollen stockings. Be sure you take flannels.
This is the advice of one who never wears them at any other time. A veil or two is very useful,
as the wind is often high and biting, and I was much annoyed with wisps of hair around my eyes,
and also with my hair coming down while on horseback, until I hit upon the device of tying
a brown liberty silk veil over the hair and partially over the ears before putting on a sombrero.
This veil was not at all unbecoming, being the same color as my hair, and it served the double
purpose of keeping unruly locks in order and keeping my ears warm. A hair net is also useful.

Then you must not forget a rubber bath tub, a rubber wash basin, sponge, towels, soap, and
toilet articles generally, including camphor ice for chapped lips and pennyroyal vaseline salve
for insect bites. A brown linen case is invaluable to hold all these toilet necessaries, so
that you can find them quickly. A sewing kit should be supplied, a flask of whiskey, and a
small "first-aid" outfit; a bottle of Perry Davis pain killer or Pond's extract; but no more
bottles than must be, as they are almost sure to be broken. In your husband's box, ammunition
takes the place of toilet articles. I shall pass over the guns with the bare mention that I
use a 30.30 Winchester, smokeless. For railroad purposes all this outfit for two goes into
two trunks and a box--one trunk for all the bedding and night things: the other for all the
clothing, guns, ammunition, eating things, and incidentals. The box holds the saddles, bridles,
and horse things.

In a pack train, the bed-rolls, weighing about fifty pounds each, go on either side of one
horse, and the telescopes on each side of another horse--in both cases not a full load, and
leaving room on the top of the pack for a tent and other camp things. The saddles, of course,
go on the saddle horses. The cost of such an outfit, in New York, is about two hundred dollars
each; but it lasts for years and brings you in large returns in health and consequent happiness.

I am willing to wager my horsehair rope (specially designed for keeping off snakes) that a
summer in the Rockies would enable you to cheat time of at least two years, and you would come
home and join me in the ranks of converts from the usual summer sort of thing. Will you try
it? If you do, how you will pity your unfortunate friends who have never known what it is to
sleep on the south side of a sage brush, and honestly say in the morning, "It is wonderful
how well I am feeling."

But to begin:--

III.

THE FIRST PLUNGE OF THE WOMAN TENDERFOOT.

It was about midnight in the end of August when Nimrod and I tumbled off the train at Market
Lake, Idaho. Next morning, after a comfortable night's rest at the "hotel," our rubber beds,
sleeping bags, saddles, guns, clothing, and ourselves were packed into a covered wagon, drawn
by four horses, and we started for Jackson's Hole in charge of a driver who knew the road perfectly.
At least, that was what he said, so of course he must have known it. But his memory failed
him sadly the first day out, which reduced him to the necessity of inquiring of the neighbours.
As these were unsociably placed from thirty to fifty miles apart, there were many times when
the little blind god of chance ruled our course.

We put up for the night at Rexburgh, after forty long miles of alkali dust. The Mormon religion
has sent a thin arm up into that country, and the keeper of the log building he called a hotel
was of that faith. The history of our brief stay there belongs properly to the old torture
days of the Inquisition, for the Mormon's possessions of living creatures were many, and his
wives and children were the least of them.

Another day of dust and long hard miles over gradually rising hills, with the huge mass of
the Tetons looming ever nearer, and the next day we climbed the Teton Pass.

There is nothing extraordinary about climbing the Teton Pass--to tell about. We just went up,
and then we went down. It took six horses half a day to draw us up the last mile--some twenty
thousand seconds of conviction on my part (unexpressed, of course; see side talk) that the
next second would find us dashed to everlasting splinters. And it took ten minutes to get us down!

Of the two, I preferred going up. If you have ever climbed a greased pole during Fourth of
July festivities in your grandmother's village, you will understand.

When we got to the bottom there was something different. Our driver informed us that in two
hours we should be eating dinner at the ranch house in Jackson's Hole, where we expected to
stop for a while to recuperate from the past year's hard grind and the past two weeks of travel.
This was good news, as it was then five o'clock and our midday meal had been light--despite
the abundance of coffee, soggy potatoes, salt pork, wafer slices of meat swimming in grease,
and evaporated apricots wherein some nice red ants were banqueting.

"We'll just cross the Snake River, and then it'll be plain sailing," he said. Perhaps it was
so. I was inexperienced in the West. This was what followed:--Closing the door on the memory
of my recent perilous passage, I prepared to be calm inwardly, as I like to think I was outwardly.
The Snake River is so named because for every mile it goes ahead it retreats half way alongside
to see how well it has been done. I mention this as a pleasing instance of a name that really
describes the thing named. But this is after knowledge.

About half past five, we came to a rolling tumbling yellow stream where the road stopped abruptly
with a horrid drop into water that covered the hubs of the wheels. The current was strong,
and the horses had to struggle hard to gain the opposite bank. I began to thank my patron saint
that the Snake River was crossed.

Crossed? Oh, no! A narrow strip of pebbly road, and the high willows suddenly parted to disclose
another stream like the last, but a little deeper, a little wider, a little worse. We crossed
it. I made no comments. 

Here also he held a wonderful feast with another giant; and, ordinary fish not sufficing to satisfy
their enormous appetites, the two embarked in a stone canoe, sailed out into the Great Lake
of Uniras, as they called the Basin, and there speared a whale, which they brought to the
shore and devoured at short notice.

The approach of the white man causing the Indian giant to desert his old haunts, he sailed
out on the great water and vanished from sight; but some day, when men and animals live together
in peace and friendship, he will return and resume his royal sway on the Basin of Minas. Before
his departure he gave a farewell feast to all the animals, who swarmed
from all over the country, turned his dogs into stone, and left his
kettle overturned in the shape of an island near Cape Spencer, across
Minas Channel.

Since that time the loons, who were his hunters, wander sadly about
the wildest lakes and rivers, searching for their master, uttering
their dolorous cries; and the owls keep up their part of the lament,
crying "Koo koo skoos," which, being Indian language, they evidently
learned from the giant, and, being interpreted, signified "I am sorry."

The

crown of France is adorned with a fine amethyst from Blomidon; and
those early explorers, De Monts and Co., "found in the neighborhood"

(of Parrsboro) "crystals and blue stones of a shining colour, similar in appearance to those
known by the name of Turkeese."

One of the company, "having found a beautiful specimen of this kind, broke it into two pieces, and
gave one to De Monts, and the other to Poutrincourt, who, on their return to Paris, had them
handsomely set by a jeweler, and presented them to the King and Queen."

At the base of Cape d'Or there is a very powerful current with great
maelstroms; this is known as the Styx, and through these terrible
whirlpools two fishermen were carried this season (1883), one losing
his life; while the other, an expert swimmer and athlete, was saved
by less than a hair's breadth, and afterwards described most thrillingly
his sensations on being drawn into and ejected from the frightful
vortices.

Just at daybreak, when Blomidon looks out all glowing from the gauzy veil of mist, as the lazy
zephyr wafts it aside, and the placid water repeats the glorious tints of radiant clouds, we
regretfully take our departure. Cape Sharp and Cape Split, bold promontories which stand like
mighty sentinels guarding the entrance to the Bay of Fundy, appear in clearest azure and violet;
while the mountains of the north shore are sharply defined in pure indigo against the brilliant
sky, as the propeller steams away.

The sail across, two hours and a half in length, is a vision of ideal and poetic beauty, all too
brief; and as we step ashore we feel tempted to quote, "Take, oh boatman, thrice thy fee!"

At this point (Hantsport) we take the W. and A. R. R, and in a few hours are set down at the
place which we have been so long planning to reach; the place of which our host, who is probably
not familiar with the history of St. Augustine, Florida, wrote proudly as "the oldest town in
North America."

It certainly is one of the oldest settlements in North America, having been founded in 1604,
and, until 1750, it was the capital of the whole peninsula of Nova Scotia: Annapolis,--the
old Port Royal, the historical town which has been the scene of so many struggles and bitter contentions;
but is now the very picture of peace and utterly restful quiet.

Here the Eight settle down for a long sojourn; basking in the delicious atmosphere, devoting themselves
to searching out the most picturesque views, in a series of rambles, drives, and excursions,
and visiting all points for miles around, to which history and romance have added charms almost
as great as those of river and mountain which they always possessed.

Those of our party who hail from the city of Brotherly Love naturally feel a special interest in
Acadia and the sad story of Longfellow's heroine; as a patent for the principality of Acadia,
which included the whole American coast from Philadelphia to Montreal,
was given by the "impulsive and warmhearted monarch," Henry IV. of
France, to Pierre du Guast, the Sieur de Monts, constituting him governor
of that country, and giving him the trade and revenues of the region.

 The wildest fears for Nimrod's safety
tormented me. He had fallen into a gully, the horse had thrown him, he was lost.

Then I heard a noise and listened eagerly. The driver said it was a coyote howling up on the
mountain. At last voices did come to me from out of the blackness, and Nimrod returned with
a man and a fresh horse. The man was no other than the owner of the house for which we were
searching, and in ten minutes I was drying myself by his fireplace, while his hastily aroused
wife was preparing a midnight supper for us.

To this day, I am sure that driver's worst nightmare is when he lives over again the time when
he took a tenderfoot and his wife into Jackson's Hole, and, but for the tenderfoot, would have
made them stay out overnight, wet, famished, frozen, within a stone's throw of the very house
for which they were looking.

IV.

WHICH TREATS OF THE IMPS AND MY ELK.

"If you want to see elk, you just follow up the road till you strike a trail on the left, up
over that hog's back, and that will bring you in a mile or so on to a grassy flat, and in two
or three miles more you come to a lake back in the mountains."

Mrs. Cummings, the speaker, was no ordinary woman of Western make. She had been imported from
the East by her husband three years before. She had been 'forelady in a corset factory,' when
matrimony had enticed her away, and the thought that walked beside her as she baked, and washed,
and fed the calves, was that some day she would go 'back East.' And this in spite of the fact
that for those parts she was very comfortable.

Her log house was the largest in the country, barring Captain Jones's, her nearest neighbour,
ten miles up at Jackson's Lake, and his was a hotel. Hers could boast of six rooms and two
clothes' closets. The ceilings were white muslin to shut off the rafters, the sitting room
had wall-paper and a rag carpet, and in one corner was the post-office.

The United States Government Post-office of Deer, Wyoming, took up two compartments of Mrs.
Cummings' writing desk, and she was called upon to be postmistress fifteen minutes twice a
week, when the small boy, mounted on a tough little pony, happened around with the leather
bag which carried the mail to and from Jackson, thirty miles below.

"I'd like some elk meat mighty well for dinner," Mrs. Cummings continued, as she leaned against
the kitchen door and watched us mount our newly acquired horses, "but you won't find game around
here without a guide--Easterners never do."

Nimrod and I started off in joyous mood. The secret of it, the fascination of the wild life,
was revealed to me. At last I understood why the birds sing. The glorious exhilaration of the
mountains, the feeling that life is a rosy dream, and that all the worry and the fever and
the fret of man's making is a mere illusion that has faded away into the past, and is not worth
while; that the real life is to be free, to fly over the grassy mountain meadow with never
a limitation of fence or house, with the eternal peaks towering around you, terrible in their
grandeur and vastness, yet inviting.

We struck the trail all right, we thought, but it soon disappeared and we had to govern our
course by imagination, an uncertain guide at best. We got into dreadful tangles of timber;
the country was all strange, and the trees spread over the mountain for miles, so that it was
like trying to find the way under a blanket; but we kept on riding our horses over fallen logs
and squeezing them between trees, all the time keeping a sharp watch over them, for they were
fresh and scary.

Finally, after three hours' hard climbing, we emerged from the forest on to a great bare shoulder
of the mountain, from which the whole country around, vast and beautiful, could be seen. We
took bearings and tried to locate that lake, and we finally decided that a wooded basin three
miles away looked likely to contain it.

In order to get to it, we had to cross a wooded ravine, very steep and torn out by a recent
cloudburst. We rode the horses down places that I shudder in remembering, and I had great trouble
in keeping away from the front feet of my horse as I led him, especially when there were little
gullies that had to be jumped.

It was exciting enough, and hard work, too, every nerve on a tingle and one's heart thumping
with the unwonted exercise at that altitude; but oh, the glorious air, the joy of life and
motion that was quite unknown to my reception and theatre-going self in the dim far away East!

We searched for that lake all day, and at nightfall went home confident that we could find
it on the morrow.

Mrs. Cummings' smile clearly expressed 'I told you so,' and she remarked as she served supper:
"When my husband comes home next week, he will take you where you can find game."

The next morning we again took some lunch in the saddle bag and started for that elusive spot
we had christened Cummings' Lake. About three o'clock we found it--a beautiful patch of water
in the heart of the forest, nestling like a jewel, back in the mountains.

We picketed the horses at a safe distance, so that they could not be seen or heard from the
lake. When looking upon the scene which has been consecrated by the presence and labours, the
joys and sorrows, of such a man, how interesting are our reflections, marred as they may be by mournful
impressions of "the mutability of human affairs." We feel a romantic regret that the genius of
Johnson could not bestow an imperishability upon the spot; and preserve
it from the casualties and decay of fire, and storm, and time.

Here the unfortunate Savage has held his intellectual "noctes" and enlivened the old moralist
with his mad philosophy. It was from this mansion that "the Bastard" roused the doctor on the
memorable night (or morn) when they set out on one of those frolicsome perambulations, which
genius, in its weakness and misgivings, sometimes indulges, and which
was worthy of the days of modern Corinthianism.

We can imagine the sleepy, solemn face of Johnson, the meagre phiz of Savage, and the more
rotund features of Boswell, around the board, and the doctor's beloved tea-kettle singing its harmonious
and solacing solo on the blazing "ingle." Inspecting more minutely the features of the visionary
picture, we might behold the oracle of learning when about to deliver his opinion, perhaps,
on the artificial fire of Gray, or the feeling and simplicity of Goldsmith: his opening eyes
and unclosing lips; the "harsh thunder" of his articulation, and
the horrisonous stamp of his ample foot, impress us with the same
reverence which was felt by his literary visitants.

It was here, doubtless, where the Herculean task of compiling his dictionary was achieved;
the monotony of which was relieved by writing the periodical papers of his Guardian, and the
more flowery composition of poetry and biography. But he is gone, and though the mist of years
may obscure his personal history, and vicissitudes annihilate his household memorials, yet his
morality and piety, his unparalleled labour and patient endurance,
but chief of all, his brilliant and versatile genius, will perish
but with the annals of humanity.

His fame

"From sire to son shall speed; from clime to clime, Outstripping death
upon the wings of time!"

** H.

* * * * *

COMMON RIGHTS.
Wait until he gets out of the water."

The next few seconds, with that struggling thing in the water, seemed an eternity of agony
to me. Then another loud bang caused the proud head with its weight of antlers to sink to the
wet bank never to rise again.

Later, as I dried my tears, I asked Nimrod:

"Where is the place to aim if you want to kill an animal instantly, so that he will not suffer,
and never know what hit him?"

"The best place is the shoulder." He showed me the spot on his elk.

"But wouldn't he suffer at all?"

"Well, of course, if you hit him in the brain, he will never know; but that is a very fine
shot. Your target is only an inch or two, here between the eye and the ear, and the head moves
more than the body. But," he said, "you would not kill an elk after the way you have wept over
this one?"

"If--if I were sure he would not suffer, I might kill just one," I said, conscious of my inconsistencies.
My woman's soul revolted, and yet I was out West for all the experiences that the life could
give me, and I knew, if the chance came just right, that one elk would be sacrificed to that end.

The next day, much to Mrs. Cummings' surprise, we had elk steak, the most delicious of meat
when properly cooked. The next few days slipped by. We were always in the open air, riding
about in those glorious mountains, and it was the end of the week when a turn of the wheel
brought my day.

First, it becomes necessary to confide in you. Fear is a very wicked companion who, since nursery
days, had troubled me very little; but when I arrived out West, he was waiting for me, and,
so that I need never be without him, he divided himself into a band of little imps.

Each imp had a special duty, and never left me until he had been crushed in silent but terrible
combat. There was the imp who did not like to be alone in the mountains, and the imp who was
sure he was going to be lost in those wildernesses, and the imp who quaked at the sight of
a gun, and the imp who danced a mad fierce dance when on a horse. All these had been conquered,
or at least partially reduced to subjection, but the imp who sat on the saddle pommel when
there was a ditch or stream to be jumped had hitherto obliged me to dismount and get over the
space on foot.

This morning, when we came to a nasty boggy place, with several small water cuts running through
it, I obeyed the imp with reluctance. Well, we got over it--Blondey, the imp, and I--with nothing
worse than wet feet and shattered nerves.

I attempted to mount, and had one foot in the stirrup and one hand on the pommel, when Blondey
started. Like the girl in the song, I could not get up, I could not get down, and although
I had hold of the reins, I had no free hand to pull them in tighter, and you may be sure the
imp did not help me. Blondey, realising there was something wrong, broke into a wild gallop
across country, but I clung on, expecting every moment the saddle would turn, until I got my
foot clear from the stirrup. Then I let go just as Blondey was gathering himself together for
another ditch.

I was stunned, but escaped any serious hurt. Nimrod was a great deal more undone than I. He
had not dared to go fast for fear of making Blondey go faster, and he now came rushing up,
with the fear of death upon his face and the most terrible swears on his lips.

Although a good deal shaken, I began to laugh, the combination was so incongruous. Nimrod rarely
swears, and was now quite unconscious what his tongue was doing. Upon being assured that all
was well, he started after Blondey and soon brought him back to me; but while he was gone the
imp and I had a mortal combat.

I did up my hair, rearranged my habit, and, rejecting Nimrod's offer of his quieter horse,
remounted Blondey. We all jumped the next ditch, but the shock was too much for the imp in
his weakened condition; he tumbled off the pommel, and I have never seen him since.

Our course lay along the hills on the east bank of Snake River that day. We discovered another
beautiful sapphire lake in a setting of green hills. Several ducks were gliding over its surface.
We watched them, in concealment of course, and we saw a fish hawk capture his dinner. Then
we quietly continued along the ridge of a high bluff until we came to an outstretched point,
where beneath us lay the Snake Valley with its fickle-minded river winding through.

The sun was just dropping behind the great Tetons, massed in front of us across the valley.
We sat on our horses motionless, looking at the peaceful and majestic scene, when out from
the shadows on the sandy flats far below us came a dark shadow, and then leisurely another
and another. They were elk, two bulls and a doe, grazing placidly in a little meadow surrounded
by trees.

We kept as still as statues.

Nimrod said. "There is your chance."

"Yes," I echoed, "here is my chance."

We waited until they passed into the trees again. Then we dismounted. Nimrod handed me the
rifle, saying:

"There are seven shots in it. I will stay behind with the horses."

I took the gun without a word and crept down the mountain side, keeping under cover as much
as possible. The sunset quiet surrounded me; the deadly quiet of but one idea--to creep upon
that elk and kill him--possessed me. That gradual painful drawing nearer to my prey seemed
a lifetime. I was conscious of nothing to the right, or to the left of me; only of what I was
going to do. There were pine woods and scrub brush and more woods. Then, suddenly, I saw him
standing by the river about to drink. I crawled nearer until I was within one hundred and fifty
yards of him, when at the snapping of a twig he raised his head with its crown of branching
horn. He saw nothing, so turned again to drink.

Now was the time. I crawled a few feet nearer and raised the deadly weapon. The stag turned
partly away from me. In another moment he would be gone. I sighted along the metal barrel and
a terrible bang went booming through the dim secluded spot. A few dead trees stand among the débris,
emphasizing the loneliness; and Conductor says when the world was created the "leavings" were
deposited in this dreary tract.

By special arrangement with "Old Prob", there are none of the prevailing fogs during our stay; and
Aurora Borealis gets up a special illumination.

Regiments of red-coats, with torches and band,--aware doubtless of the presence of such distinguished
strangers,--march past our hotel in the evening.

Meanwhile, Nimrod had become alarmed at the long silence, and, tying the horses, had followed
me down the mountain. He was nearly down when he heard the shots, and now came rushing up.

"I have done it," I said in a dull tone, pointing at the dark, quiet object on the bank.

"You surely have."

Nimrod paced the distance--it was one hundred and thirty-five yards--as we went up to the elk.
How beautiful his coat was, glossy and shaded in browns, and those great horns--eleven points--that
did not seem so big now to my eyes.

Nimrod examined the carcass.

"You are an apt pupil," he said. "You put a bullet through his heart and another through his
brain."

"Yes," I said; "he never knew what killed him." But I felt no glory in the achievement.

V.

LOST IN THE MOUNTAINS.

Have you ever been lost in the mountains?--not the peaceful, cultivated child hills of the
Catskills, but in real mountains, where the first outpost of civilisation, a lonely ranch house,
is two weeks' travel away, and where that stream on your left is bound for the Pacific Ocean,
and that stream on your right over there will, after four thousand miles, find its way into
the Atlantic Ocean, and where the air you breathe is twelve thousand feet above those seas? I have.

The situation is naturally one you would not fish out of the grab bag of fate if you could
avoid it. We naturally infer that the name is French; but our researches prove that it was originally
the Indian Aquoddie, a pollock,--not a poetic or romantic significance. This was corrupted by the French
into Accadie, L'Acadie, Cadie.
 The working half was chained up by my fears, for such is the power of a woman. I
will explain. In crossing over the Continental Divide of the Rocky Mountains, we were guests
in the pack train of a man who was equally at home in a New York drawing-room or on a Wyoming
bear hunt, and he had made mountain travelling a fine art. Besides ourselves, there were the
horse wrangler, the cook (of whom you shall hear later), and sixteen horses, and we started
from Jackson's Lake for the Big Horn Basin, several hundred miles over the pathless uninhabited
mountains.

No one who has not tried it knows how difficult it is for two or three men to keep so many
pack animals in line, with no pathway to guide; and once they are started going nicely, it
is nothing short of a calamity to stop them, especially when it is necessary to cover a certain
number of miles before nightfall in order that they may have feed. 

The seats are in the middle. They are neither elegant nor graceful, but easy, "springy" vehicles,
which, having neither sides nor top covers, give unimpeded views, and are excellent for sight seeing,
though not precisely the thing for rainy weather.


