It was the man with the scar.  He had been lounging against the bar, an uninterested spectator
of the bestowing of the runnership.  Now, my eyes fell upon him, and I saw to my surprise that
he was shaken out of his careless humor.  He was standing tensely on the balls of his feet,
and his hands were gripping the bar rail so fiercely his fingers seemed white and bloodless.
It was apparent some stern emotion wrestled him; the profile I saw was set like chiseled marble. Always write a thing. Otherwise, I'll tell you to you.
I am no friend to get up late, sometimes until dawn; days must be at ten I'm standing. I drink
tea, chocolate and sometimes it is necessary to live in the country. If at that time has appeared
as a newspaper, it gets me my servant, after having perused it, I tend the top view, read the
parts that I always figure he has read them already, all sound to me same thing, another comes,
the lame, and is the second edition of the first. Newspapers are like Madrid's youth do not differ
but in name. I'm already tired of being told every morning in serious articles as happy as we
would if we were free and what needs to be done.
  Separate cabins, dash me!  I had it
from the cabin boy. They even eats separate. . . .  He's nasty to her--I've heard the devil
snarl at her more than once, when I've had a wheel. . . .  Blank me, she's a blessed angel.
There was I with a sprained wrist big as my blanked head, an' Lynch a-hazin' me to work--and
every morning she trips into the foc'sle with her bright cheer an' her linaments.  A blanked,
blessed angel, she is!"

"He beats her," supplemented another man.  "I got it from a mate what chummed with the bloke
as was a Sails on her one voyage.  He said, that sailmaker did, as how Swope got drunk, and
beat her."

The big Cockney, who had been visibly possessed by a pompous self-importance since his elevation
to the dignity of runner, saw fit to interpose his contrary opinion of the Lady of the Golden
Bough. Because the man was vile, his words were vile.

"Blimme, yer needn't worrit abaht Yankee Swope's lydy, as yer call 'er. She arn't nah bleedin'
lydy--she's just a blarsted Judy.  Yer got to knock a Judy abaht, arn't yer?  Hi 'arve hit
straight--'e picked 'er hoff the streets----"

The man with the scar wheeled on his heel, reached out, and grasped the Cockney by his two
wrists.  I exclaimed aloud when I saw the man's full face.  There was death in it.  He spoke
to Cockney in a voice of cold fury.  "You lie!" he cried.  "Say you lie!"

Cockney was a big man, and husky.  He cursed, and struggled.  But he was a child in the grasp
of that white-faced giant towering over him. The hands I had seen gripping the rail a moment
before, now gripped Cockney's wrists in the same terrible clutch.  They squeezed, as though
to crush the very bones.  Cockney squirmed, and whimpered, then he broke down, and screamed
in agony.

"Ow, Gaw' blimme, let hup!  Hi never meant northin'!  A lie--  Ow, yuss--a lie!  She's a proper
lydy--  Hi never 'eard the hother--  Gaw' strike me blind!"

The man with the scar cast the fellow contemptuously away; and Cockney lost no time in putting
the distance of the room between them.  The big man turned on the Swede, and his voice was
sharp and commanding.

"Swede, does the Golden Bough sail to-morrow?"

"Ja, with da flood," the Swede answered.

"Then I ship in her," declared the man.  "I ship in the Golden Bough, Swede!"

It was the spark needed to fire my own resolution.  What another dared, I would dare.  I thumped
the bar with my fist and sang out valorously, "I ship in her too, Swede!"

The Swede's needles stopped flashing in and out of the gray yarn.  He regarded us, one after
the other, with his baby stare.  Then he said to the big man, "Vat if your frients ship by her?"

"I have no friends," was the curt answer.

The Swede leaned back on his stool, and his big belly quivered with his wheezy laughter.  "By
Yimminy, Ay tank da Golden Bough haf vun lively voyage!" he exclaimed.

CHAPTER IV

We signed articles in the Swede's house, almost within the hour.  A little man with a pimply,
bulbous nose appeared in the house; he carried in his person the authority of Shipping Commissioner
and in his hand the articles of the Golden Bough.  After the careless fashion of the day and
port we signed on without further ado for a voyage to Hong Kong and beyond--sitting at a table
in the back room, and cementing the contract with a drink around.

The Shipping Commissioner made the usual pretense of reading the articles.  Then he squinted
up at us.

"What's yer John Henry's?" says he.

My big shipmate mused a moment.  He stroked the scar on his forehead--a habit he had when thinking.
He smiled.

"My name is Newman," he made answer.  "It is a good name."

He took the pen from the Shipping Commissioner's hand and wrote the name in the proper place
upon the articles.  "A. Newman," that is how he wrote it.  Not the first time he had clapped
eyes upon ship's articles, one could see with half an eye.  I wrote my own "John Shreve" below
his name, with an outward flourish, but with a sinking sensation inwardly.

As soon as the ceremony was completed, A. Newman got to his feet, refused my pressing invitation
to visit the bar, and went upstairs to his room.  Now, this seemed very peculiar to my sailor's
way of thinking; it seemed more peculiar than his choice of a name.  Here we were, shipmates,
together committed to a high adventure, yet the man would not tarry by my side long enough
to up-end a schooner to a fair passage.  I was to have other surprises before the day was out--the
mean-faced beggar, and the way in which the Knitting Swede put us on board the Golden Bough.
Surprising incidents.  But this refusal of my new shipmate to drink with me was most surprising.
Think of a sailor, a hard case, too, moping alone in his room on the day he shipped, when downstairs
he could wassail away the day.  I was surprised and resentful.  It is hard for a nineteen-year-old
man to stand alone, and I felt that Newman, my shipmate, should give me the moral support of
his companionship.

I strutted away the day in lonely glory.  I had not the courage to violate the hoary traditions
of the foc'sle and join my ship sober, so I imbibed as steadily as my youthful stomach permitted.
Towards evening I was, as sailors say, "half seas over."

I was mellow, but not befuddled.  I saw things clearly, too clearly. Of a sudden I felt an
urgent necessity to get away from the Swede's barroom.  I wanted to breathe a bit of fresh
air, I wanted to shut out from my mind the sights and sounds and smells of the groggery, the
reek and the smut and the evil faces.  Above all, I wished to escape the importunities of the
little Jewess.  She had gotten upon my nerves. Oh, I was her fancy boy to-day, you bet!  I
was spending my advance money, you see, and this was her last chance at my pocketbook.

So, when opportunity offered, I slipped away from the crowd unobserved, and went rolling along
East street as though that thoroughfare belonged to me.  And in truth it did.  Aye, I was the
chesty lad, and my step was high and proud, during that stroll.  For men hailed me, and pointed
me out.  I was the rough, tough king of the beach that hour; I was the lad who had whipped
the Knitting Swede's bully, and shipped in the Golden Bough.

Upon a corner, some blocks from the Knitting Swede's house, I came upon a fellow who was spitting
blood into the gutter.  He was the sorriest-looking wretch I had ever seen, the gaunt ruin
of a man.  He drew his filthy rags about him, and shivered, and prefaced his whine for alms
with a fit of coughing that seemed to make his bones rattle.

I can't say that my heart went out to the man.  It didn't.  He was too unwholesome looking,
and his face was mean and sly.  His voice was as remarkable as anything about him; instead
of speaking words, he whined them, through his nose it sounded like, and though his tone seemed
pitched low, his whine cut through the East street uproar like a sharp knife through butter.

Well, he was a pitiful wreck.  On the rocks for good, already breaking up and going to pieces.
Without thinking much about it, I emptied my pockets of their change.  He pounced upon that
handful of silver with the avidity of a miser, and slobbered nasal thanks at me.  I was the
kindest-hearted lad he had met in many a day, he said.

We would have gone our different ways promptly but for a flurry of wind.  I suspect that, with
the money in his hand, he was as eager to see the last of me as I was to see the last of him.
But I felt ashamed of my distaste of him; it seemed heartless.  And when the cold wind came
swooping across from the docks, setting him shivering and coughing, I thought of the spare
pea-coat I had in my bag.  It was serviceable and warm, and I had a new one to wear.

So I carried him back to the Swede's house with me.  I did not take him into the barroom, though
he brazenly hinted he would like to stop in there; but I feared the gibes of the boisterous
gang.  This bum of mine was such grotesque horror that the drunken wits of the house would
not, I knew, fail to seize the chance to ridicule me upon my choice of a chum.  Besides it
was clothes not whisky I intended giving him.

I took him upstairs by the side entrance, the entrance to the lodging-house section of the
Knitting Swede's establishment.  The house was a veritable rookery above the first floor. 
I lodged on the third floor, in a room overlooking the street, a shabby, dirty little cubicle,
but one of the choice rooms at the Swede's disposal--for was I not spending money in his house?

My companion's complaining whine filled the halls as we ascended the stairs.  He was damning
the times and the hard hearts of men.  As we walked along the hall towards my room, the door
of the room next to mine opened and the big man, who signed himself Newman, looked out at us.
I had not known before that he occupied this room, he was so silent and secretive in his comings
and goings.

I hailed Newman heartily, but he gave me no response, not even a direct glance.  He was regarding
the derelict; aye, and there was something in his face as he looked at the man that sent a
thrill through me.  There was recognition in his look, and something else.  It made me shiver.
As for this fellow with me--he stopped short at first sight of Newman. He said, "Oh, my God!"
and then he seemed to choke.  He stumbled against the banisters, and clung to them for support
while his knees sagged under him.  He'd have run, undoubtedly, if he had had the strength.

"Hello, Beasley," said Newman, in a very quiet voice.  He came out of his room, and approached
us.  Then this man of mine threw a fit indeed. I never saw such fright in a man's face.  He
opened his mouth as If to scream, but nothing came out except a gurgle; and he lifted his arm
as if to ward off an expected blow.

But Newman made no move to strike him.  He looked down at him, studying him, with his stern
mouth cracked into a little smile (but, God's truth, there was no mirth in it) and after a
moment he said, "Surprised?  Eh?  But no more surprised than I."

The poor wreck got some sound out of his mouth that sounded like "How--how--" several times
repeated.

"And I wanted to meet you more than I can tell," went on Newman.  "I want to talk to you--about----"

The other got his tongue to working in a half-coherent fashion, though the disjointed words
he forced out of his mouth were just husky whispers.  "Oh, my God--you!  Not me--oh, my God,
not me!--him--he made me--it was----"

No more sense than that to his agonized mumbling.  And he got no more than that out of him
when he choked, and an ugly splotch of crimson appeared upon his pale lips.  His knees gave
way altogether, and he crouched there on the floor, gibbering silently at the big man, and
plainly terrified clean out of his wits.

Well, I felt out of it, so to speak.  The feeling made me a little resentful.  After all, this
bum was my bum.

"Look here, the man's sick," I said to Newman.  "Don't look at him like that--he'll die.  You've
half scared him to death already."

"Oh, no; he'll not die--yet," said Newman.  "He's just a little bit surprised at the encounter.
But he's glad to see me--aren't you, Beasley?  Stop that nonsense, and get up!"  This last
was barked at the fellow; it was a soft-voiced but imperative command.

The command was instantly obeyed.  That was Newman for you--people didn't argue with him, they
did what he said. The
tiger needs to eat the deer, but surely the buck does not expect to hear their reasons. Everything
is positive and rational animal deprived of reason. The female does not deceive the male, and vice
versa, because as they do not speak, understand. The strong do not mislead the weak for the
same reason: to flee the first sight of the second, and this is the order, the only possible
order. Give them the use of the word: first, they need an academy to assume the right to tell them
this or that word should not mean what they want, but anything else, need to wise, therefore, concerned
with all a long life in the talk about how they must speak, will need writers to make Macit bound
paper, we call free to voice their opinions to others, who believe that matters. The strong lion
climb a tree and convince the weakest vermin that has not been bred to come and go and live in
his will but to obey, and it will not be worse than the lion says, but it creates the vermin. Put
names to things, and calling for a robbery, another lie, another murder, they will get, not
to, but forests filled with criminals. Create vanity and pride: the noble animal that was
asleep twenty-four hours a day, will be unveiled before the ghost of a distinction, and brother,
who only kill to eat, Mataral later by a white or red tape. Give you, finally, the use of
the word and lie: the female to male to love the boy for the great ambition as well as the rivalry,
the poor to the rich out of fear and envy, want government as indispensable thing , and the class
will agree it is a God! they will send a slaughter because the only hobby I could never understand,
those will want to send one, which does not seem big win, here want to send all, which I understand
perfectly, there are noble animals, of highborn means ... (Or rather, do not know what that
means) who send the low-born, there will be no difference in cradle ... What confusion! What a maze!
Maze in the world proves that there is indeed a positive thing, which is the only fair and good,
that is recognized by all and agree to it: that comes from no difference. In conclusion, animals,
having no use of reason or a word, do not require a speaker to tell
them how they should be happy: they can not deceive nor be deceived,
do not believe they are believed.

The man, however, the man speaking and listening, the man believes, and not like, but believes it. What
kind! The man believes in women, believes in the opinion, believes
in happiness ... What do I know what he believes the man!

  I didn't try to eavesdrop; at the time Beasley's words had little
interest or meaning for me.  But afterwards, on the ship, I had reason to ponder over what he said.

The burden of his speech was to the effect that somebody referred to as "he" was to blame.
Aye, trust a rat of that caliber to set up that wail.  For some time that was all I got from
the words that came through the wall.  I wasn't trying to listen; I was drowsing, and paying
very little attention.

But gradually Beasley's whine grew louder and more distinct.  I suppose the whisky was oiling
his tongue.   Once he cried out sharply, "For God's sake, don't look at me like that!  I'm
telling the truth, I swear I am!"  The scrape of a chair followed this outburst, and when the
whine began again it was closer to the wall, and more distinct than ever.

"I didn't want to, but he made me.  I had to look out for myself, hadn't I?  I had to do what
he said.  He had this paper of mine--he knew they were forgeries--I had to do what he said.
But, my God, I didn't know what he was planning--I swear I didn't!"

Newman's rumble broke in, and then the voluble, reedy voice continued, "But he was wild when
he came home and found you and Mary so thick, and everybody just waiting for the announcement
that it was a match.  Why, he had the whole thing planned, the very day he arrived.  I know
he had, because he came to me, in the tavern, and told me I was to drop hints here and there
through the village that you and Beulah Twigg had been seen together in Boston.  I didn't want
to, but I had to obey him. Why, those checks--he could have put me in prison.  My father would
not have helped me.  You remember my father--he was ready to throw me out anyway.  He never
could make allowances for a young fellow's fun.

"He had others dropping hints around.  Trust him to handle a job like that.  He was your friend,
and Mary's friend--your very best friend, and all the time the tongues were wagging behind
your back.  Why, it was the talk of the town.  You and Beulah Twigg, together in Boston; you
and Beulah together at sea; you and Beulah--well, you know what a story they would make of
it in a little town like Freeport.  Mary must have heard the gossip about you; the women would
tell her.

"But it didn't seem to have any effect.  The two of you were as thick as ever.  We were laying
bets in the tavern that you would be married before you went to sea again.  He didn't like
that--the talk about your wedding.  But he wasn't beaten yet; he was just preparing his ground.
Oh, he was a slick devil!

"He came to me one day and said, 'Beasley, give me the key to the Old Place--and keep your
mouth shut and stay away from there.'

"Now you begin to understand?  The Old Place--that tumble-down old ruin of a house all alone
out there on the cliffs.  It belonged to my father, you remember, but it hadn't been lived
in for years.  I had a key because we young bloods used the place for card-playing, and high jinks.

"I gave him the key.  Why not?  It was a small matter.  He went off to Boston--business trip,
he said.  I could make a good guess at the nature of the business.  Didn't I know his ways?
But I wouldn't blab; he owned me body and soul.  I was afraid of him.  His soft voice, his
slick ways, and what he could do to me if I didn't obey!

"He brought Beulah Twigg back with him from Boston.  Now you understand?  Little Beulah--pretty
face, empty head, too much heart. He owned her body and soul, too.  When folks wondered where
she had run off to, I could have told them.  I knew how he'd played with her, on the quiet,
while he sparked Mary in the open--last time he was home. You were home then, also.  Remember,
you left a day ahead of him, to join your ship in New York?  A China voyage, wasn't it?  Well--Beulah
left the same day.  Just disappeared.  And poor old Twigg couldn't understand it.  You remember
the old fool?  Beulah was all the family he had, and after she skipped out he got to drinking.
They found him one morning at the bottom of the cliffs, not a hundred yards from the spot where
they afterwards found her.

"But I knew what had become of Beulah.  I guessed right.  Didn't I know his ways with the girls?
You know there weren't many women who could stand out against him.  Mary could, and did--that's
why he was so wild against you.  But little Beulah--she threw herself at him.  And when she
ran away, it was to join him in Philadelphia, and go sailing with him to South America.

"Now you know how he turned the trick on you, don't you?  But--don't look at me like that!
I didn't know what he was doing, I swear I didn't!  I thought he just wanted his sweetheart
near him, or that she insisted on coming, or something like that.  I thought it was devilish
bold of him, bringing the girl where everybody knew her.  But then, he really wasn't taking
such a chance, because nobody ever went near the Old Place, except upon my invitation, and
he drove her over from the next township in the night, and she didn't come near the village.
I knew, but he knew I wouldn't blab.  My God, no!

"Well, he came to me the next day after he got back from Boston.  'I ask a favor of you,' he
said to me.  Yes--asking favors, when he knew I must do what he said.  Smiling and purring--you
remember the pleasant manner he had.  'Just a short note.  I know you are handy with the pen,'
he said.

"What could I do?  I had to look out for myself.  He gave me a page from an old letter as a
sample of the handwriting.  It was Mary Barntree's writing; oh, I knew it well.  I had it perfect
in a few minutes.  You know--I had a rare trick with the pen in those days--before this cough
got me, and my hand got shaky.  The note I wrote for him was a mere line.  'Meet me at Beasley's
Old Place at three,' with her initial signed.  That was all.  But he had a sheet of her own
special note paper for me to write on (no, I don't know where he got it!) and of course he
knew--like we all knew--how fond the two of you were of lovers' walks out on the cliffs.

"Do you remember how you got that note?  Oh, he was a slick devil.  He thought of everything.
Abel Horn brought it to you--remember?  He told you, with a wink and a grin, that it was from
a lady--but he didn't say what lady.  Remember?  Well, Beulah had given him the note, and told
him to say that--not to mention names. Look at this marquis, how careless and
plain! See what it looks like in his hand, especially his inferiors. That familiarity, that deference,
if we delve into his heart, we can see that it is his honor to create
charity that appeals to the commoner. 
But--I swear I didn't know what he was leading up to.  No, I didn't.  I thought it was--well,
all's fair in love, you know.  And I had to do what he said, I had to!

"Poor little Beulah had to do what he said, too.  I only feared him, but she loved and feared
him both.  He owned her completely.  He had made her into a regular echo of himself.  She didn't
want to, she cried about it, but she had to do what he said.

