[118] Christian in a great measure escaped the peculiar temptations that assaulted Faithful,
yet he sympathized with him; nor did the latter deem the gloomy experiences of his brother
visionary or imaginative, though he had been exempted from them. One man, from a complication
of causes, is exposed to temptations of which another is ignorant; and in this case he needs
much sympathy, which he seldom meets with; while they, who are severe on him are liable to
be baffled in another way, which, for want of coincidence in habit, temperature, and situation,
he is equally prone to disregard. Thus Christians are often led reciprocally to censure, suspect,
or dislike each other, on those very grounds which would render them useful and encouraging
counselors and companions!-(Scott).

[119] Bunyan, in his Pilgrim's Progress, places the Valley of the Shadow of Death, not where
we should expect it, at the end of Christian's pilgrimage, but about the middle of it. Those
who have studied the history of Bunyan and his times will hardly wonder at this. It was then
safer to commit felony than to become a Dissenter. Indeed, a felon was far surer of a fair
trial than any Dissenting minister, after the restoration of Charles II. This Bunyan found.
Simply and solely for preaching, he was condemned by Keeling to imprisonment. That was to be
followed by banishment if he did not conform, and, in the event of his return from banishment
without license from the King, the judge added, "You must stretch by the neck for it; I tell
you plainly." Christian endured, in the first portion of this dismal valley, great darkness
and distress of mind about his soul's safety for eternity; and, in the latter part of the valley,
the dread of an ignominious, and cruel, and sudden execution in the midst of his days-a fear
more appalling than the prospect of a natural death. This he was enabled to bear, because he
then enjoyed the light, the presence, and the approbation of his God-(ED).

[120] The character now introduced under a most expressive name, is an admirable portrait,
drawn by a masterly hand, from some striking original, but exactly resembling numbers in every
age and place, where the truths of the Gospel are generally known. Such men are more conspicuous
than humble believers, but their profession will not endure a strict investigation-(Scott).
Reader, be careful not to judge harshly, or despise a real believer, who is blessed with fluency
of utterance on Divine subjects-(ED). 

Six months after his services in the night-escape from the prison, I saw him, and pressed him
to take the money so justly forfeited to him by Manasseh's perfidy. He would, however, be persuaded
to take no more than paid his debts. A second and a third time his debts were paid by myself and Pierpoint.
But the same habits of intemperance and dissolute pleasure which led him into these debts,
finally ruined his constitution; and he died, though otherwise of
a fine generous manly nature, a martyr to dissipation at the early
age of twenty-nine.

[122] The Pharisee goes on boldly, fears nothing, but trusteth in himself that his state is
good; he hath his mouth full of many fine things, whereby he strokes himself over the head,
and calls himself one of God's white boys, that, like the Prodigal's brother, never transgressed-(Pharisee
and Publican, vol. 2, p. 215).

[123] Talkative seems to have been introduced on purpose that the author might have a fair
opportunity of stating his sentiments concerning the practical nature of evangelical religion,
to which numbers in his day were too inattentive; so that this admired allegory has fully established
the important distinction between a dead and a living faith, on which the whole controversy
depends-(Scott). (1 Cor. 13:1). Just thus it is with him who has gifts, but wants grace. Shall
I be proud, because I am sounding brass? Is it so much to be a fiddle? Hath not the least creature
that hath life, more of God in it than these?-(Grace Abounding, No. 297-300). Some professors
are pretty busy and ripe, able to hold you in a very large discourse of the glorious Gospel;
but, if you ask them concerning heart work, and its sweet influences and virtues on their souls
and consciences, they may answer, I find by preaching that I am turned from my sins in a good
measure, and have learned [in tongue] to plead for the Gospel. This is not far enough to prove
them under the covenant of grace-(Law and Grace, vol. 1, p. 515).

[124] Read this, and tremble, ye whose profession lies only on your tongue, but who never knew
the love and grace of Christ in your souls. O how do you trifle with the grace of God, with
precious Christ, and with the holy Word of truth! O what an awful account have you to give
hereafter to a holy, heart-searching God! Ye true pilgrims of Jesus, read this, and give glory
to your Lord, for saving you from resting in barren notions, and taking up with talking of
truths; and that he has given you to know the truth in its power, to embrace it in your heart,
and to live and walk under its constraining, sanctifying influences. Who made you to differ?-(Mason).

[125] This spiritual application of the law of Moses is found in the narrative of Bunyan's
experience in the Grace Abounding, (No. 71): "I was also made, about this time, to see something
concerning the beasts that Moses counted clean and unclean. I thought those beasts were types
of men: the clean, types of them that were the people of God; but the unclean, types of such
as were the children of the wicked one. Now, I read, that the clean beasts chewed the cud;
that is, thought I, they show us we must feed upon the Word of God; they also parted the hoof,
I thought that signified we must part, if we would be saved with the ways of ungodly men."

[126] True faith will ever show itself by its fruits; real conversion, by the life and conversation.
Be not deceived; God is not to be mocked with the tongue, if the heart is not right towards
Him in love and obedience-(Mason).

[127] This distinction between speaking against sin, and feeling a hatred to it, is so vastly
important, that it forms the only infallible test to distinguish between those who are "quickened"
by the Spirit of God, and those who "have a name to live and are dead." It is a very awful
statement, but, it is to be feared, strictly correct, that ministers may declaim against sin
in the pulpit, who yet indulge it in the parlour. There may be much head knowledge, where there
is no heart religion-(Ivimey).

[128] Christian faithfulness detects mere talkatives, and they complain, "in so saying thou
condemnest us also"; they will bear no longer, but seek refuge under more comfortable preachers,
or in more candid company, and represent those faithful monitors as censorious, peevish, and
melancholy men-lying at the catch-(Scott).

[129] In the Jerusalem Sinner Saved, Bunyan explains his meaning of "lying at the catch" in
these solemn words, referring to those who abide in sin, and yet expect to be saved by grace:
"Of this sort are they that build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity; that judge
for reward, and teach for hire, and divine for money, and lean upon the Lord (Micah 3:10, 11).
This is doing things with a high hand against the Lord our God, and a taking Him, as it were,
at the catch! This is, as we say among men, to seek to put a trick upon God, as if He had not
sufficiently fortified his proposals of grace by his Holy Word, against all such kind of fools
as these"-(Vol. 1, p. 93).

[130] Blessed faithful dealing! O that it were more practised in the world, and in the church!
How then would vain talkers be detected in the one, and driven out of the other-(Mason).

[131] Heart searching, soul examining, and close questioning of the conduct of life, will not
do with talkative professors. Ring a peal on the doctrines of grace, and many will chime in
with you; but speak closely how grace operates upon the heart, and influences the life to follow
Christ in self-denying obedience, they cannot bear it; they are offended with you, and will
turn away from you, and call you legal-(Mason).

[132] I observe that, as there are trees wholly noble, so there are also their semblance; not
right, but ignoble. There is the grape, and the wild grape; the rose, and the canker rose;
the apple and the crab. Now, fruit from these wild trees, however it may please children to
play with, yet the prudent count it of no value. There are also in the world a generation of
professors that bring forth nothing but wild olive berries; saints only before men, devils
and vipers at home; saints in word, but sinners in heart and life. Well, saith God, this profession
is but a cloak: I will loose the reins of this man, and give him up to his own vile affections.
"I will answer him by Myself" (Ezek. 14:7). Thou art too hard for the church: she knows not
how to deal with thee. Well, I will deal with that man Myself-(Bunyan's Barren Fig-tree).

[133] Where the heart is rotten, it will ward off conviction, turn from a faithful reprover,
condemn him, and justify itself. Faithful dealing will not do for unfaithful souls. Mind not
that, but be faithful to the truth-(Mason).

[134] How they rejoiced again to meet Evangelist, and listen to his encouraging and animating
exhortations; of which, as they were now near the great town of Vanity Fair, they would stand
in special need. Indeed, it was to forewarn them of what they were to meet with there, and
to exhort them, amidst all persecutions, to quit themselves like men, that Evangelist now came
to them. His voice, so solemn and deep, yet so inspiring and animating, sounded like the tones
of a trumpet on the eve of battle-(Cheever).

[135] The pilgrims are now about to enter upon a new era-to leave their privacy in the wilderness,
and commence a more public scene-perhaps alluding to Bunyan's being publicly set apart to the
work of the ministry. It was in the discharge of these public duties that he was visited with
such severe persecution. This interview with Evangelist reminds one of the setting apart of
Dissenting ministers. It is usual, on these occasions, for the Christians entering on such
important duties, to give a short account of what "had happened in the way," and their reasons
for hoping that they were called by God to the work. They receive the advice of their ministering
elder, and the pastor prays for their peace and prosperity. Evangelist's address would make
a good outline of an ordination sermon. Bunyan's account of his being thus set apart in 1656
(with seven other members of the same church) is narrated in Grace Abounding, Nos. 266-270.
The second address of Evangelist peculiarly relates to the miseries endured by Nonconformist
ministers in the reign of Charles II-(ED).

[136] Shall the world venture their soul's ruin for a poor corruptible crown; and shall not
we venture the loss of a few trifles for an eternal crown? Shall they venture the loss of eternal
life for communion with base, drunken, covetous wretches; and shall we not labour as hard,
run as fast, nay, a hundred times more diligently, for such glorious and eternal friends as
God to love, Christ to redeem, the Holy Spirit to comfort, and saints and angels in Heaven
for company? Shall it be said at the last day, that the wicked made more haste to hell than
you to Heaven? O let it not be so, but run with all might and main! They that will have Heaven
must run for it, because the devil will follow them. There is never a poor soul that is gone
to it, but he is after that soul. And I assure them the devil is nimble; he is light of foot,
and can run apace. He hath overtaken many, tripped up their heels, and given them an everlasting
fall--(Heavenly Footman).

[137] Bunyan illustrates the care of Christ for his afflicted ones with striking simplicity.
"I love to play the child with children. I have met with a child that had a sore finger, so
that it was useless. Then have I said, Shall we cut off this finger, and buy my child a better,
a brave golden finger? At this he started, and felt indignation against me. Now, if a child
has such tenderness for a useless member, how much more tender is the Son of God to his afflicted
members?"-(Saint's Privilege, vol. 1, p. 674). The text here quoted forms the foundation of
Bunyan's admirable Advice to Sufferers, in which he delightfully dwells upon the topics which
Evangelist addresses to the Pilgrims, when on the verge of bitter persecution-(ED).

[138] Vanity Fair is the City of Destruction in its gala dress, in its most seductive and sensual
allurements. It is this world in miniature, with its various temptations. Hitherto we have
observed the pilgrims by themselves, in loneliness, in obscurity, in the hidden life and experience
of the people of God. The allegory thus far has been that of the soul, amidst its spiritual
enemies, toiling towards Heaven; now there comes a scene more open, tangible, external; the
allurements of the world are to be presented, with the manner in which the true pilgrim conducts
himself amidst them. It was necessary that Bunyan should show his pilgrimage in its external
as well as its secret spiritual conflicts; it was necessary that he should draw the contrast
between the pursuits and deportment of the children of this world and the children of light;
that he should show how a true pilgrim appears, and is likely to be regarded, who, amidst the
world's vanities, lives above the world, is dead to it, and walks through it as a stranger
and a pilgrim towards Heaven-(Cheever).

[139] A just description of this wicked world. How many, though they profess to be pilgrims,
have never yet set one foot out of this fair; but live in it all the year round! They "walk
according to the course of this world" (Eph. 2:2); for "the god of this world hath blinded
their minds" (1 Cor. 4:4). But all those for whose sins Jesus hath died "He delivers from this
present evil world" (Gal. 1:4). You cannot be a pilgrim, if you are not delivered from this
world and its vanities; for if you love the world, if it has your supreme affections, the love
of God is not in you, (1 John 2:15); you have not one grain of precious faith in precious Jesus-(Mason). 

But where or how should this notification be made, so as to exclude Russian hearers? After
some deliberation, the following plan was adopted:--Couriers, it was contrived, should arrive
in furious haste, one upon the heels of another, reporting a sudden inroad of the Kirghises
and Bashkirs upon the Kalmuck lands, at a point distant about one hundred and twenty miles. Thither
all the Kalmuck families, according to immemorial custom, were required to send a separate
representative; and there, accordingly, within three days, all appeared.
 Here are also taverns, coffee-houses, and eating-houses, in great plenty.
The chief diversions are puppets, rope-dancing, and music booths. To this Fair, people from
Bedfordshire and the adjoining counties still resort. Similar kinds of fairs are now kept at
Frankfort and Leipzig. These mercantile fairs were very injurious to morals; but not to the
extent of debauchery and villany, which reign in our present annual fairs, near the metropolis
and large cities." See an account of this fair in Hone's Year Book, page 1538-(ED). Our author
evidently designed to exhibit in his allegory the grand outlines of the difficulties, temptations,
and sufferings, to which believers are exposed in this evil world; which, in a work of this
nature, must be related as if they came upon them one after another in regular succession;
though in actual experience several may meet together, many may molest the same person again
and again, and some harass him in every stage of his journey. We should, therefore, singly
consider the instruction conveyed by every allegorical incident, without measuring our experience,
or calculating our progress, by comparing them with circumstances which might be reversed or
altered with almost endless variety. In general, Vanity Fair represents the wretched state
of things in those populous places especially, where true religion is neglected and persecuted;
and, indeed, "in the whole world lying in wickedness," as distinguished from the church of
"redeemed sinners"-(Scott).

[141] Christ will not allow his followers to bury their talent in the earth, or to put their
light under a bushel; they are not to go out of the world, or to retire into cloisters, monasteries,
or deserts; but they MUST all go through this fair. Thus our Lord endured all the temptations
and sufferings of this evil world, without being impeded or entangled by them, or stepping
in the least aside to avoid them; and he was exposed to greater enmity and contempt than any
of His followers-(Scott).

[142] The world will seek to keep you out of Heaven with mocks, flouts, taunts, threatenings,
jails, gibbets, halters, burnings, and deaths. There ever was enmity between the seed of the
serpent and the seed of the woman, and no endeavours can reconcile them. The world says, They
will never come over to us; and we again say, By God's grace we will not go over to them.

[143] Holy Hunt of Hitchin, as he was called, a friend of Bunyan's, passing the market-place
where mountebanks were performing, one cried after him, "Look there, Mr. Hunt!" Turning his
head another way, he replied, "Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity"-(Ivimey).

[144] An odd reply. What do they mean? That they are neither afraid nor ashamed to own what
was the one subject of their souls' pursuit-the truth. Understand hereby, that the whole world,
which lieth in wickedness, is deceived by a lie, and is under the delusion of the father of
lies. In opposition to this, all believers in Christ are said to be of the truth (1 John 3:19).
They know and believe that capital truth with which God spake from Heaven, "This is My beloved
Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matt. 3:17). This truth-that Jesus is the Son of God, and
our only Saviour-lies at the foundation of all their hope; and to get more and more acquainted
with Him, is the grand object of their pursuits. For this the world hates them; and Satan,
who is an enemy to this truth, stirs up the world against them. "For," says our Lord, "they
are not of the world, even as I am not of the world" (John 17:16)-(Mason).

[145] In 1670, the town porters of Bedford being commanded to assist in a brutal attack upon
the Nonconformists, ran away, saying, "They would be hanged, drawn, and quartered, before they
would assist in that work"; for which cause the justices committed two of them (which they
could take) to the jail. The shops were shut up, so that it seemed like a place visited with
the pest, where usually is written upon the door, "Lord, have mercy upon us!"-(Narrative of
Proceedings against Nonconformists, p. 5. 4to, 1670).

[146] This is a true representation of what took place in England in Bunyan's time. It was
a disgrace to our nation, that Englishmen, urged on by a fanatic church, treated two young
and interesting women with a barbarity that would make savages (so called) blush. It was at
Carlisle that two female pilgrims, Dorothy Waugh and Ann Robinson, were dragged through the
streets, with each an iron instrument of torture, called a bridle, upon their heads; and were
treated with gross indecency-(ED).

[147] The great object of the Gospel is to fit man for his active duties in this world, and
prepare him for heavenly enjoyments in the world to come. Not like those lazy creeping things
that shut themselves up in nunneries or monasteries to avoid the temptations and troubles,
the resistance or hearing of which glorifies God. Christians are to be as lights-not hid under
a bushel but seen of all men. The prayer of their Lord was and is, not that they should be
taken out of the world, but kept from its evil contaminations-(ED).

[148] In Bunyan's account of his imprisonment, he closes it with these words-"Thus have I,
in short, declared the manner and occasion of my being in prison; where I lie waiting the good
will of God to do with me as He pleaseth; knowing that not one hair of my head can fall to
the ground without the will of my Father which is in Heaven. Let the rage and malice of men
be ever so great, they can do no more, nor go any further, than God permits them. When they
have done their worst, 'we know that all things work together for good to them that love God'"
(Rom. 8:28).

[149] The description of the process against the pilgrims, is framed in such a manner as emphatically
to expose the secret reasons which influence men thus to persecute their innocent neighbours.
The very names employed declare the several corrupt principles of the heart from whence this
atrocious conduct results-(Scott).

[150] This is one of Satan's lies, much used by his emissaries, to the present day. A Christian
fears God, and honours the king; he renders unto civil government that which belongs to civil
and temporal things, but he dares not render unto Caesar the things that belong to God; and
for thus righteously doing he is called disloyal-(ED).

[151] Superstition, or false devotion, is a most bitter enemy to Christ's truth and his followers.
This fellow's evidence is very true; for as the lawyer said of Christ's doctrine, "Master,
thus saying, thou reproachest us also" (Luke 11:45). With such, traditions, human inventions,
forms, and externals, appear venerable and sacred; and they are mistaken with pertinaceous
ignorance for the substance of religion. We began to despond heavily; and Agnes, poor thing!
was now the most agitated of us all. At length eleven struck in the harsh tones of the prison-clock.
A few minutes after, we heard the sound of bolts drawing, and bars unfastening.


[152] As soon as the poor sinner says, "O Lord our God, other lords beside Thee have had dominion
over us: but by Thee only will we make mention of Thy name" (Isa. 26:13), your officious Pickthanks
are always ready to bear testimony against him; and a blessed testimony this is; it is well
worth living to gain, and dying in the cause of. If we are real disciples of Christ, we shall,
as He did, testify of the world that the works thereof are evil, and the world will hate us
for His sake (John 7:7)-(Mason). Pickthank has no real principle, but puts on zeal for any
party that will promote his interests; he inwardly despises both the superstitious and the
spiritual worshipper-(Scott).

[153] This is the Christian's plea and glory. While he knows "the tender mercies of the wicked
are cruel" (Prov. 12:10), yet he also knows that the "merciful kindness of the Lord is great,
and the truth of the Lord endureth forever" (Psa. 118:2)-(Mason).

[154] A more just and keen satirical description of such legal iniquities can scarcely be imagined,
than that contained in this passage. The statutes and precedents adduced, with a humourous
reference to the style in which charges are commonly given to juries, show what patterns persecutors
choose to copy, and whose kingdom they labour to uphold. Nor can any impartial man deny that
the inference is fair, which our author meant the reader to deduce, namely, that nominal Protestants,
enacting laws requiring conformity to their own creeds and forms, and inflicting punishments
on such as peaceably dissent from them, are actually involved in the guilt of these heathen
persecutors--(Scott).

[155] These words, and this trial, were quoted (January 25, 1848) by the Attorney-General,
at Westminster Hall, in answer to the manner in which Dr. Hampden was then charged with heresy
by the Puseyites-(ED).

[156] If the Lord were to leave us in the hands of men, we should still find that their tender
mercies are cruel. Such a jury as tried Faithful might be found in every county of Britain-(Burder).
To this may be added, that the witnesses are still living-(ED).

[157] Nothing can be more masterly than the satire contained in this trial. The judge, the
witnesses, and the jury, are portraits sketched to the life, and finished, every one of them,
in quick, concise, and graphic touches; the ready testimony of Envy is especially characteristic.
Rather than anything should be wanting that might be necessary to despatch the prisoner, he
would enlarge his testimony against him to any requisite degree. The language and deportment
of the judge are a copy to the life of some of the infamous judges under King Charles, especially
Jefferies. You may find, in the trial of the noble patriot Algernon Sidney, the abusive language
of the judge against Faithful almost word for word. The charge to the jury, with the Acts and
laws on which the condemnation of the prisoner was founded, wax full of ingenuity and meaning-(Cheever).

[158] Bunyan gives a good portrait of Faithful in his Howe of Lebanon, referring to the character
of Pomporius Algerius, mentioned in Fox's Book of Martyrs. "Was not this man, think you, a
giant? did he not behave himself valiantly? was not his mind elevated a thousand degrees beyond
sense, carnal reason, fleshly love, and the desires of embracing temporal things? This man
had got that by the end that pleased Him; neither could all the flatteries, promises, threats,
reproaches, make him once listen to, or inquire after, what the world, or the glory of it could
afford. His mind was captivated with delights invisible. He coveted to show his love to his
Lord, by laying down his life for His sake. He longed to be where there shall be no more pain,
nor sorrow, nor sighing, nor tears, nor troubles. He was a man of a thousand!" Speaking of
the pillars in that house at Lebanon, he says, "These men had the faces of lions, they have
triumphed in the flames."

[159] This is a most exquisitely beautiful sketch; it is drawn to the life from many an era
of pilgrimage in this world; there are in it the materials of glory, that constituted spirits
of such noble greatness as are catalogued in the eleventh of Hebrews-traits of cruel mockings
and scourgings, bonds and imprisonments-(Cheever).

[160] Political interests engage ungodly princes to promote toleration, and chain up the demon
of persecution. The cruelties they exercise disgust the people, and they are disheartened by
the ill success of their efforts to extirpate the hated sect-(Scott).

[161] I have often recorded it with thankfulness, that though in the dreary day of my pilgrimage,
the Lord hath taken away a dear and faithful Christian friend, yet he has always raised up
another. A very great blessing this, for which Christians can never be thankful enough-(Mason).

[162] Is not this too much the case with professors of this day? (2 Tim. 3:12). But how many
act as if they had found the art of making the Spirit of truth a liar! for they can so trim
and shape their conduct, as they vainly think to follow Christ, and yet to keep in with the
world, which is at enmity against Him-a most fatal and soul-deceiving error-(Mason).

[163] What is this something that By-ends knew more than all the world? How to unite Heaven
and hell-how to serve God and Mammon-how to be a Christian and a hypocrite at the same time.
O the depth of the depravity of the human heart; alas! how many similar characters now exist,
with two tongues in one mouth, looking one way and rowing another-(ED).

[164] Fear not, therefore, in her for to abide, She keeps her ground, come weather, wind, or
tide.--(Bunyan's House of God, vol. 2, p. 579). If we will follow Christ, He tells us that
we must take up our cross. The wind sets always on my face; and the foaming rage of the sea
of this world, and the proud and lofty waves thereof do continually beat upon the sides of
the bark, or ship, that myself, my cause, and my followers are in-(Bunyan's Greatness of the
Soul, vol. 1, p. 107).

[165] Mind how warily these pilgrims acted to this deceitful professor. They did not too rashly
take up an ill opinion against him; but when they had full proof of what he was, they did not
hesitate one moment, but dealt faithfully with him, and conscientiously withdrew from him-(Mason).
In a letter written in 1661, from Exeter jail, by Mr. Abraham Chear, a Baptist minister of
Plymouth, who suffered greatly for nonconformity, and at length died in a state of banishment,
there is this remark, "We have many brought in here daily, who go out again almost as soon,
for a week in a prison tries a professor more than a month in a church"-(Ivimey).

[166] It might have been supposed that the persons here introduced were settled inhabitants
of the town of Vanity, or the City of Destruction; but, indeed, they professed themselves pilgrims,
and desired, during the "sunshine," to associate with pilgrims, provided they would allow them
to hold the world, love money, and save all, whatever became of faith and holiness, of honesty,
piety, truth, and charity?-(Scott).

[167] Pretended friends come with such expostulations as these: Why, dear Sir, will you give
such offence? How much would it be for your comfort and interest in the world if you would
but be a little more complying, and give way in some particular points and phrases. O what
a syren's song! May the Lord enable every faithful servant to reply, "Get thee behind me, Satan"-(J.
B.).

[168] These words of Solomon are thus wickedly misapplied by many to the present day. Ecclesiastes
7:16, 17 probably refers to the administration of justice which should be tempered with mercy,
but not with laxity; or it may refer to the foolish opinions expressed upon the characters
of Pharisee and publican, exalting the one or decrying the other overmuch. It cannot be meant
to censure the utmost efforts after true righteousness, nor to sanction the slightest degree
of wickedness-(ED).

[169]Woe unto them who wander from the way. Art bound for hell, against all wind and weather?
Or art thou one agoing backward thither? Or dost thou wink, because thou would'st not see?
Or dost thou sideling go, and would'st not be Suspected Yet these prophets can thee tell, Which
way thou art agoing down to hell.--(Acts 7:20-22. Bunyan's House of God, vol. 2, p. 582).

[170] Notwithstanding By-ends could be reserved with faithful pilgrims, yet he can speak out
boldly to those of his own spirit sad character. O the treacherous deceivings of the desperate
wickedness of the human heart! Who can know it? No one but the heart-searching God-(Mason).

[171] Some men's hearts are narrow upwards, and wide downwards: narrow as for God, but wide
for the world. Her worst errors never took a shape of self-interest or deceit. She was brave,
she was generous, she was forgiving, she bore no malice, she was full of truth--qualities that
God loves either in man or woman. She hated sycophants and dissemblers.

A full purse, with a lean soul, is a great curse. Many, while lean in their estates, had fat
souls; but the fattening of their estates has made their souls as lean as a rake as to good-(Bunyan's
Righteous Man's Desires, vol. 1, p. 745).

