While this work of transformation was going on within him, he was aided and sustained by the
ever dear and ever present image of Reine Vincart. The trenches, filled with dead leaves, the
rows of beech-trees, stripped of their foliage by the rude breath of winter, the odor peculiar
to underwood during the dead season, all recalled to his mind the impressions he had received
while in company with the woodland queen. I have no hope of being the harbinger of any thing but
circumstances of a very different tendency. I can only give you details of the horrors I have
already generally described. Carnage has not yet ceased; and is only become more cool and more
discriminating. The beauty of the scene was associated in his thoughts
with Reine's love, and he could not think of either separately.  But, notwithstanding the steadfastness
and force of his love, he had not yet made any effort to see Mademoiselle Vincart.  At first,
the increase of occupation caused by Claudet's departure, the new duties devolving upon him,
together with his inexperience, had prevented Julien from entertaining the possibility of renewing
relations that had been so violently sundered.  Little by little, however; as he reviewed the
situation of affairs, which his cousin's generous sacrifice had engendered, he began to consider
how he could benefit thereby.  Claudet's departure had left the field free, but Julien felt
no more confidence in himself than before.  The fact that Reine had so unaccountably refused
to marry the grand chasserot did not seem to him sufficient encouragement.  Her motive was
a secret, and therefore, of doubtful interpretation.  Besides, even if she were entirely heart-whole,
was that a reason why she should give Julien a favorable reception?  Could she forget the cruel
insult to which he had subjected her?  And immediately after that outrageous behavior of his,
he had had the stupidity to make a proposal for Claudet.  That was the kind of affront, thought
he, that a woman does not easily forgive, and the very idea of presenting himself before her
made his heart sink. He had seen her only at a distance, at the Sunday mass, and every time
he had endeavored to catch her eye she had turned away her head.  She also avoided, in every
way, any intercourse with the chateau.  Whenever a question arose, such as the apportionment
of lands, or the allotment of cuttings, which would necessitate her having recourse to M. de
Buxieres, she would abstain from writing herself, and correspond only through the notary, Arbillot.
Claudet's heroic departure, therefore, had really accomplished nothing; everything was exactly
at the same point as the day after Julien's unlucky visit to La Thuiliere, and the same futile
doubts and fears agitated him now as then.  It also occurred to him, that while he was thus
debating and keeping silence, days, weeks, and months were slipping away; that Reine would
soon reach her twenty-third year, and that she would be thinking of marriage.  It was well
known that she had some fortune, and suitors were not lacking.  Even allowing that she had
no afterthought in renouncing Claudet, she could not always live alone at the farm, and some
day she would be compelled to accept a marriage of convenience, if not of love.

"And to think," he would say to himself, "that she is there, only a few steps away, that I
am consumed with longing, that I have only to traverse those pastures, to throw myself at her
feet, and that I positively dare not!  Miserable wretch that I am, it was last spring, while
we were in that but together, that I should have spoken of my love, instead of terrifying her
with my brutal caresses!  Now it is too late!  I have wounded and humiliated her; I have driven
away Claudet, who would at any rate have made her a stalwart lover, and I have made two beings
unhappy, without counting myself.  So much for my miserable shufflings and evasion!  Ah! if
one could only begin life over again!"

While thus lamenting his fate, the march of time went steadily on, with its pitiless dropping
out of seconds, minutes, and hours.  The worst part of winter was over; the March gales had
dried up the forests; April was tingeing the woods with its tender green; the song of the cuckoo
was already heard in the tufted bowers, and the festival of St. George had passed.

Taking advantage of an unusually clear day, Julien went to visit a farm, belonging to him,
in the plain of Anjeures, on the border of the forest of Maigrefontaine.  After breakfasting
with the farmer, he took the way home through the woods, so that he might enjoy the first varied
effects of the season.

The forest of Maigrefontaine, situated on the slope of a hill, was full of rocky, broken ground,
interspersed with deep ravines, along which narrow but rapid streams ran to swell the fishpond
of La Thuiliere. Julien had wandered away from the road, into the thick of the forest where
the budding vegetation was at its height, where the lilies multiply and the early spring flowers
disclose their umbelshaped clusters, full of tiny, white stars.  The sight of these blossoms,
which had such a tender meaning for him, since he had identified the name with that of Reine,
brought vividly before him the beloved image of the young girl. He walked slowly and languidly
on, heated by his feverish recollections and desires, tormented by useless self-reproach, and
physically intoxicated by the balmy atmosphere and the odor of the flowering shrubs at his
feet.  Arriving at the edge of a somewhat deep pit, he tried to leap across with a single bound,
but, whether he made a false start, or that he was weakened and dizzy with the conflicting
emotions with which he had been battling, he missed his footing and fell, twisting his ankle,
on the side of the embankment.  He rose with an effort and put his foot to the ground, but
a sharp pain obliged him to lean against the trunk of a neighboring ash-tree.  His foot felt
as heavy as lead, and every time he tried to straighten it his sufferings were intolerable.
All he could do was to drag himself along from one tree to another until he reached the path.

Exhausted by this effort; he sat down on the grass, unbuttoned his gaiter, and carefully unlaced
his boot.  His foot had swollen considerably.  He began to fear he had sprained it badly, and
wondered how he could get back to Vivey.  Should he have to wait on this lonely road until
some woodcutter passed, who would take him home?  Montagnard, his faithful companion, had seated
himself in front of him, and contemplated him with moist, troubled eyes, at the same time emitting
short, sharp whines, which seemed to say:

"What is the matter?"  and, "How are we going to get out of this?"

Suddenly he heard footsteps approaching.  He perceived a flutter of white skirts behind the
copse, and just at the moment he was blessing the lucky chance that had sent some one in that
direction, his eyes were gladdened with a sight of the fair visage of Reine.

She was accompanied by a little girl of the village, carrying a basket full of primroses and
freshly gathered ground ivy.  Reine was quite familiar with all the medicinal herbs of the
country, and gathered them in their season, in order to administer them as required to the
people of the farm.  When she was within a few feet of Julien, she recognized him, and her
brow clouded over; but almost immediately she noticed his altered features and that one of
his feet was shoeless, and divined that something unusual had happened.  Going straight up
to him, she said:

"You seem to be suffering, Monsieur de Buxieres.  What is the matter?"

"A--a foolish accident," replied he, putting on a careless manner.  "I fell and sprained my ankle."

The young girl knit her brows with an anxious expression; then, after a moment's hesitation;
she said:

"Will you let me see your foot?  My mother understood about bone-setting, and I have been told
that I inherit her gift of curing sprains."

She drew from the basket an empty bottle and a handkerchief.

"Zelie," said she to the little damsel, who was standing astonished at the colloquy, "go quickly
down to the stream, and fill this bottle."

While she was speaking, Julien, greatly embarrassed, obeyed her suggestions, and uncovered
his foot.  Reine, without any prudery or nonsense, raised the wounded limb, and felt around
cautiously.

"I think," said she at last, "that the muscles are somewhat injured."

Without another word, she tore the handkerchief into narrow strips, and poured the contents
of the bottle, which Zelie had filled, slowly over the injure member, holding her hand high
for that purpose.  Then, with a soft yet firm touch, she pressed the injured muscles into their
places, while Julien bit his lips and did his very utmost to prevent her seeing how much he
was suffering.  After this massage treatment, the young girl bandaged the ankle tightly with
the linen bands, and fastened them securely with pins.

"There," said she, "now try to put on your shoe and stocking; they will give support to the
muscles.  Now you, Zelie, run, fit to break your neck, to the farm, make them harness the wagon,
and tell them to bring it here, as close to the path as possible."

The girl picked up her basket and started on a trot.

"Monsieur de Buxieres;" said Reine, "do you think you can walk as far as the carriage road,
by leaning on my arm?"

"Yes;" he replied, with a grateful glance which greatly embarrassed Mademoiselle Vincart, "you
have relieved me as if by a miracle.  I feel much better and as if I could go anywhere you
might lead, while leaning on your arm!"

She helped him to rise, and he took a few steps with her aid.

"Why, it feels really better," sighed he.

He was so happy in feeling himself thus tenderly supported by Reine, that he altogether forgot
his pain.

"Let us walk slowly," continued she, "and do not be afraid to lean on me. All you have to think
of is reaching the carriage."

"How good you are," stammered he, "and how ashamed I am!"

"Ashamed of what?"  returned Reine, hastily.  "I have done nothing extraordinary; anyone else
would have acted in the same manner."

"I entreat you," replied he, earnestly, "not to spoil my happiness. I know very well that the
first person who happened to pass would have rendered me some charitable assistance; but the
thought that it is you-- you alone--who have helped me, fills me with delight, at: the same
time that it increases my remorse.  I so little deserve that you should interest yourself in
my behalf!"

He waited, hoping perhaps that she would ask for an explanation, but, seeing that she did not
appear to understand, he added:

"I have offended you.  I have misunderstood you, and I have been cruelly punished for my mistake.
But what avails my tardy regret in healing the injuries I have inflicted!  Ah! if one could
only go backward, and efface, with a single stroke, the hours in which one has been blind and
headstrong!"

"Let us not speak of that!"  replied she, shortly, but in a singularly softened tone.

In spite of herself, she was touched by this expression of repentance, so naively acknowledged
in broken, disconnected sentences, vibrating with the ring of true sincerity.  In proportion
as he abased himself, her anger diminished, and she recognized that she loved him just the
same, notwithstanding his defects, his weakness, and his want of tact and polish.  She was
also profoundly touched by his revealing to her, for the first time, a portion of his hidden
feelings.

They had become silent again, but they felt nearer to each other than ever before; their secret
thoughts seemed to be transmitted to each other; a mute understanding was established between
them.  She lent him the support of her arm with more freedom, and the young man seemed to experience
fresh delight in her firm and sympathetic assistance.

Progressing slowly, although more quickly than they would have chosen themselves, they reached
the foot of the path, and perceived the wagon waiting on the beaten road.  Julien mounted therein
with the aid of Reine and the driver.  When he was stretched on the straw, which had been spread
for him on the bottom of the wagon, he leaned forward on the side, and his eyes met those of
Reine.  For a few moments their gaze seemed riveted upon each other, and their mutual understanding
was complete. These few, brief moments contained a whole confession of love; avowals mingled
with repentance, promises of pardon, tender reconciliation!

"Thanks!"  he sighed at last, "will you give me your hand?"

She gave it, and while he held it in his own, Reine turned toward the driver on the seat.

"Felix," said she, warningly, "drive slowly and avoid the ruts.  Good- night, Monsieur de Buxieres,
send for the doctor as soon as you get in, and all will be well.  I will send to inquire how
you are getting along."

She turned and went pensively down the road to La Thuiliere, while the carriage followed slowly
the direction to Vivey.

The doctor, being sent for immediately on Julien's arrival, pronounced it a simple sprain,
and declared that the preliminary treatment had been very skilfully applied, that the patient
had now only to keep perfectly still.  Two days later came La Guite from Reine, to inquire
after M. de Buxieres's health.  She brought a large bunch of lilies which Mademoiselle Vincart
had sent to the patient, to console him for not being able to go in the woods, which Julien
kept for several days close by his side.

This accident, happening at Maigrefontaine, and providentially attended to by Reine Vincart,
the return to the chateau in the vehicle belonging to La Thuiliere, the sending of the lilies,
were all a source of great mystification to Manette.  She suspected some amorous mystery in
all these events, commented somewhat uncharitably on every minor detail, and took care to carry
her comments all over the village.  Very soon the entire parish, from the most insignificant
woodchopper to the Abbe Pernot himself, were made aware that there was something going on between
M. de Buxieres and the daughter of old M. Vincart.

In the mean time, Julien, quite unconscious that his love for Reine was providing conversation
for all the gossips of the country, was cursing the untoward event that kept him stretched
in his invalid-chair.  At last, one day, he discovered he could put his foot down and walk
a little with the assistance of his cane; a few days after, the doctor gave him permission
to go out of doors.  His first visit was to La Thuiliere.

He went there in the afternoon and found Reine in the kitchen, seated by the side of her paralytic
father, who was asleep.  She was reading a newspaper, which she retained in her hand, while
rising to receive her visitor.  After she had congratulated him on his recovery, and he had
expressed his cordial thanks for her timely aid, she showed him the paper.

"You find me in a state of disturbance," said she, with a slight degree of embarrassment, "it
seems that we are going to have war and that our troops have entered Italy.  Have you any news
of Claudet?"

Julien started.  This was the last remark he could have expected. Claudet's name had not been
once mentioned in their interview at Maigrefontaine, and he had nursed the hope that Reine
thought no longer about him.

All his mistrust returned in a moment on hearing this name come from the young girl's lips
the moment he entered the house, and seeing the emotion which the news in the paper had caused her.

"He wrote me a few days ago," replied he.

"Where is he?"

"In Italy, with his battalion, which is a part of the first army corps. His last letter is
dated from Alexandria."

Reine's eyes suddenly filled with tears, and she gazed absently at the distant wooded horizon.

"Poor Claudet!"  murmured she, sighing, "what is he doing just now, I wonder?"

"Ah!"  thought Julien, his visage darkening, "perhaps she loves him still!"

Poor Claudet!  At the very time they are thus talking about him at the farm, he is camping
with his battalion near Voghera, on the banks of one of the obscure tributaries of the river
Po, in a country rich in waving corn, interspersed with bounteous orchards and hardy vines
climbing up to the very tops of the mulberry-trees.  His battalion forms the extreme end of
the advance guard, and at the approach of night, Claudet is on duty on the banks of the stream. It
cannot then, I conceive, be contended, that a treaty with a government still professing principles
which have been repeatedly proved to be subversive of all social order, which have been acknowledged
by their parents to have for their object the methodical demolition
of existing constitutions, can be concluded without danger or risk.

That danger, I admit, is greatly diminished, because the power which was destined to carry into
execution those gigantic projects which constituted its object, has, by the operations of the
war, been considerably curtailed. They well may exist in equal force, but the ability is no longer
the same.

MACHIAVEL justly observes, that it was the narrow policy of the Lacedaemonians always to destroy
the ancient constitution, and establish their own form of government, in the counties and
cities which they subdued.

But though I maintain the existence of danger in a Treaty with the Republic of France, unless she previously
repeal the decrees to which I have adverted, and abrogate the acts to which they have given birth,
I by no means contend that it exists in such a degree as to justify a determination, on the
part of the British government, to make its removal the sine qua
non of negotiation, or peace.

Greatly as I admire the brilliant endowments of Mr. BURKE, and highly as I respect and esteem
him for the manly and decisive part which he has taken, in opposition to the destructive anarchy of
republican France, and in defence of the constitutional freedom of Britain; I cannot either
agree with him on this point, or concur with him in the idea that the restoration of the Monarchy
of France was ever the object of the war. That the British Ministers ardently desired that
event, and were earnest in their endeavours to promote it, is certain; not because it was the
object of the war, but because they considered it as the best means of promoting the object of
the war, which was, and is, the establishment of the safety and tranquillity of Europe, on a solid
and permanent basis. If that object can be attained, and the republic exist, there is nothing in
the past conduct and professions of the British Ministers, that can interpose an obstacle to
the conclusion of peace. Indeed, in my apprehension, it would be highly impolitic in any Minister,
at the commencement of a war, to advance any specific object, that attainment of which should
be declared to be the sine qua non of peace. If mortals could arrogate to themselves the attributes
of the Deity, if they could direct the course of events, and controul the chances of war, such
conduct would be justifiable; but on no other principle, I think, can its defence be undertaken.
It is, I grant, much to be lamented, that the protection offered to the friends of monarchy
in France, by the declaration of the 29th of October, 1793, could
not be rendered effectual: as far as the offer went it was certainly
obligatory on the party who made it; but it was merely conditional--restricted,
as all similar offers necessarily must be, by the ability to fulfil
the obligation incurred.

In paying this tribute to truth, it is not my intention to retract,
in the smallest degree, the opinion I have ever professed, that the
restoration of the ancient monarchy of France would be the best possible
means not only of securing the different states of Europe from the
dangers of republican anarchy, but of promoting the real interests,
welfare, and happiness of the French people themselves.


It is Claudet. Others are behind him, and soon more than a hundred men, with their bayonets,
are hurling themselves along the cemetery road; the grand chasserot leaps across the fields,
as he used formerly in pursuit of the game in the Charbonniere forest.  The soldiers are falling
right and left of him, but he hardly sees them; he continues pressing forward, breathless,
excited, scarcely stopping to think.  As he is crossing one of the meadows, however, he notices
the profusion of scarlet gladiolus and also observes that the rye and barley grow somewhat
sturdier here than in his country; these are the only definite ideas that detach themselves
clearly from his seething brain.  The wall of the cemetery is scaled; they are fighting now
in the ditches, killing one another on the side of the hill; at last, the fort is taken and
they begin routing the enemy.  But, at this moment, Claudet stoops to pick up a cartridge,
a ball strikes him in the forehead, and, without a sound, he drops to the ground, among the
noisome fennels which flourish in graveyards--he drops, thinking of the clock of his native
village.

                         ......................

"I have sad news for you," said Julien to Reine, as he entered the garden of La Thuiliere,
one June afternoon.

He had received official notice the evening before, through the mayor, of the decease of "Germain-Claudet
Sejournant, volunteer in the seventeenth battalion of light infantry, killed in an engagement
with the enemy, May 20, 1859."

Reine was standing between two hedges of large peasant-roses.  At the first words that fell
from M. de Buxieres's lips, she felt a presentiment of misfortune.

"Claudet?"  murmured she.

"He is dead," replied Julien, almost inaudibly, "he fought bravely and was killed at Montebello."

The young girl remained motionless, and for a moment de Buxieres thought she would be able
to bear, with some degree of composure, this announcement of the death in a foreign country
of a man whom she had refused as a husband.  Suddenly she turned aside, took two or three steps,
then leaning her head and folded arms on the trunk of an adjacent tree, she burst into a passion
of tears.  The convulsive movement of her shoulders and stifled sobs denoted the violence of
her emotion.  M. de Buxieres, alarmed at this outbreak, which he thought exaggerated, felt
a return of his old misgivings.  He was jealous now of the dead man whom she was so openly
lamenting.  Her continued weeping annoyed him; he tried to arrest her tears by addressing some
consolatory remarks to her; but, at the very first word, she turned away, mounted precipitately
the kitchen-stairs, and disappeared, closing the door behind her.  Some minutes after, La Guite
brought a message to de Buxieres that Reine wished to be alone, and begged him to excuse her.

He took his departure, disconcerted, downhearted, and ready to weep himself, over the crumbling
of his hopes.  As he was nearing the first outlying houses of the village, he came across the
Abbe Pernot, who was striding along at a great rate, toward the chateau.

"Ah!"  exclaimed the priest, "how are you, Monsieur de Buxieres, I was just going over to see
you.  Is it true that you have received bad news?"

Julien nodded his head affirmatively, and informed the cure of the sad notice he had received.
The Abbe's countenance lengthened, his mouth took on a saddened expression, and during the
next few minutes he maintained an attitude of condolence.

"Poor fellow!"  he sighed, with a slight nasal intonation, "he did not have a fair chance!
To have to leave us at twenty-six years of age, and in full health, it is very hard.  And such
a jolly companion; such a clever shot!" 

Dear Brother,

All the public prints still continue strongly to insinuate, that England is prepared for an insurrection,
and Scotland already in actual rebellion: but I know the character of our countrymen too well
to be persuaded that they have adopted new principles as easily as
they would adopt a new mode, or that the visionary anarchists of the
French government can have made many proselytes among an humane and
rational people.

For many years we were content to let France remain the arbitress
of the lighter departments of taste: lately she has ceded this province
to us, and England has dictated with uncontested superiority.

This I cannot think very strange; for the eye in time becomes fatigued by elaborate finery,
and requires only the introduction of simple elegance to be attracted by it.


Julien was gazing at him with a bewildered air.  The cure pushed open the little park gate,
and passing through, added:

"Let us go into your place; we shall be better able to talk over the matter."

When they were underneath the trees, the Abbe resumed:

"Monsieur de Buxieres, do you know that you are at this present time giving occasion for the
tongues of my parishioners to wag more than is at all reasonable?  Oh!"  continued he, replying
to a remonstrating gesture of his companion, "it is unpremeditated on your part, I am sure,
but, all the same, they talk about you--and about Reine."

"About Mademoiselle Vincart?"  exclaimed Julien, indignantly, "what can they say about her?"

"A great many things which are displeasing to me.  They speak of your having sprained your
ankle while in the company of Reine Vincart; of your return home in her wagon; of your frequent
visits to La Thuiliere, and I don't know what besides.  And as mankind, especially the female
portion, is more disposed to discover evil than good, they say you are compromising this young
person.  Now, Reine is living, as one may say, alone and unprotected.  It behooves me, therefore,
as her pastor, to defend her against her own weakness.  That is the reason why I have taken
upon myself to beg you to be more circumspect, and not trifle with her reputation."

"Her reputation?"  repeated Julien, with irritation.  "I do not understand you, Monsieur le Cure!"

"You don't, hey!  Why, I explain my meaning pretty clearly.  Human beings are weak; it is easy
to injure a girl's reputation, when you try to make yourself agreeable, knowing you can not
marry her."

"And why could I not marry her?"  inquired Julien, coloring deeply.

"Because she is not in your own class, and you would not love her enough to overlook the disparity,
if marriage became necessary."

"What do you know about it?" returned Julien, with violence.  "I have no such foolish prejudices,
and the obstacles would not come from my side. But, rest easy, Monsieur," continued he, bitterly,
"the danger exists only in the imagination of your parishioners.  Reine has never cared for
me!  It was Claudet she loved!"

"Hm, hm!"  interjected the cure, dubiously.

"You would not doubt it," insisted de Buxieres, provoked at the Abbe's incredulous movements
of his head, "if you had seen her, as I saw her, melt into tears when I told her of Sejournant's
death.  She did not even wait until I had turned my back before she broke out in her lamentations.
My presence was of very small account.  Ah!  she has but too cruelly made me feel how little
she cares for me!"

"You love her very much, then?"  demanded the Abbe, slyly, an almost imperceptible smile curving
his lips.

"Oh, yes!  I love her," exclaimed he, impetuously; then coloring and drooping his head.  "But
it is very foolish of me to betray myself, since Reine cares nothing at all for me!"

There was a moment of silence, during which the curb took a pinch of snuff from a tiny box
of cherry wood. 

Full of the importance which the commercial interest is to acquire under a republic, the wealthy
man of business is easily reconciled to the oppression of the superior classes, and enjoys, with
great dignity, his new elevation.  I will have that cleared up this very day. 
Good- night; keep quiet and behave properly."

Thereupon he took his departure, but, instead of returning to the parsonage, he directed his
steps hurriedly toward La Thuiliere. Notwithstanding a vigorous opposition from La Guite, he
made use of his pastoral authority to penetrate into Reine's apartment, where he shut himself
up with her.  What he said to her never was divulged outside the small chamber where the interview
took place.  He must, however, have found words sufficiently eloquent to soften her grief,
for when he had gone away the young girl descended to the garden with a soothed although still
melancholy mien.  She remained a long time in meditation in the thicket of roses, but her meditations
had evidently no bitterness in them, and a miraculous serenity seemed to have spread itself
over her heart like a beneficent balm. 

Had I been accompanied by an antiquary this morning, his sensibility would have been severely exercised;
for even I, whose respect for antiquity is not scientific, could not help lamenting the modern
rage for devastation which has seized the French.  The grand chasserot
having been a universal favorite with every one in the neighborhood, the church was crowded.
The steep descent from the high plain overlooked the village.  They came thronging in through
the wooded glens of Praslay; by the Auberive road and the forests of Charbonniere; companions
in hunting and social amusements, foresters and wearers of sabots, campers in the woods, inmates
of the farms embedded in the forests--none failed to answer the call.  The rustic, white-walled
nave was too narrow to contain them all, and the surplus flowed into the street.  Arbeltier,
the village carpenter, had erected a rudimentary catafalque, which was draped in black and
bordered with wax tapers, and placed in front of the altar steps.  On the pall, embroidered
with silver tears, were arranged large bunches of wild flowers, sent from La Thuiliere, and
spreading an aromatic odor of fresh verdure around.  The Abbe Pernot, wearing his insignia
of mourning, officiated.  Through the side windows were seen portions of the blue sky; the
barking of the dogs and singing of birds were heard in the distance; and even while listening
to the 'Dies irae', the curb could not help thinking of the robust and bright young fellow
who, only the year previous, had been so joyously traversing the woods, escorted by Charbonneau
and Montagnard, and who was now lying in a foreign land, in the common pit of the little cemetery
of Montebello.

As each verse of the funeral service was intoned, Manette Sejournant, prostrate on her prie-dieu,
interrupted the monotonous chant with tumultuous sobs.  Her grief was noisy and unrestrained,
but those present sympathized more with the quiet though profound sorrow of Reine Vincart. He
has debased and made himself the ridicule of the Aristocrates and Constitutionalists, without
paying his court, as he intended, to the popular faction. I would always wish it to happen so
to those who offer up incense to the mob.

