    "On the 20th day of July last, your mother, by a fall down the
    stairway, unfortunately got one of her limbs broken. It was
    considered necessary to have it amputated. Mortification set in
    shortly afterwards, eventually proving fatal. At an early hour on the
    morning of the 25th, only five days after the occurrence, your dear
    mother breathed her last, surrounded by her weeping relatives. She
    was sensible to within a few hours of her death. Her dying words
    conferred a blessing upon you. She died happy, and with full
    assurance of a blessed immortality.

    "Striking as this announcement must be to your mind, I trust that
    with the help of God you will be enabled to bear up under the severe
    affliction. Sooner or later we must all die; and by what means we
    know not. Then let this event be another warning to us to prepare
    effectually for our exit to eternity. May God bless you, my dear
    friend. May Christ be your spiritual Physician, to pour the Balm of
    Gilead upon your troubled soul; and through Divine power may you ere
    long be conducted back in health and safety to your old home.

    "Your friends join in expressing their love to you.

    "I remain, dear Frederick, your affectionate cousin.

    "William A. Thornton."

Appended to the above letter was the following note from Eliza, Frederick's eldest sister:

    "London, Sept. 20th, 1870.

    "My Dear Brother,--The sad events that have occurred since your
    departure have thrown a deep gloom over our household. The death of
    our dear mother has almost broken our hearts. I hope in God you will
    be enabled to endure the severe affliction. Call upon Christ, and he
    will assist you to bear up your weight of sorrow. It is some comfort
    however to know that mother died the happy death of a Christian. I
    trust her spirit is now reaping the heavenly harvest of her spiritual
    labors upon earth. Father is terribly changed since her death. I
    thought he would assuredly die under the heavy affliction. No doubt
    your absence has had a tendency to augment his grief. He has become
    fearfully melancholy, and of late has had recourse to drinking. I
    dread the consequences; therefore I intreat you to come home as soon
    as possible. Perhaps your influence may have a soothing effect upon
    his mind; and prevent him from further indulgence.

    "Oh, how glad we shall all feel, even in our sorrow, to see you
    again, dear brother. Richard has turned out to be a fine boy; you
    will be happy to see him. Cousin William has acquainted you with
    other facts. Trust to God for the consolation of your mind. We all
    join in love to you. With a heavy heart and in tears I have written
    these few lines. I am, dear brother, your affectionate sister.

    "Eliza Charlston."

"These are sad news indeed," said I, returning the letter to Frederick.

"Very, very sad, indeed, almost insufferable!" said he.

Having paused for a few moments he continued. "My dream has been forcibly verified. How overwhelming
is the reality that my poor mother is no more. Had I been present when she died it would have
given some consolation to my soul. But, oh! to think of the manner in which I fled from her
presence, and also from my happy home: to think of the sufferings both mentally and physically
she must have endured: to think of the unfortunate circumstances of her death; to think that
I, her favorite son, was absent in her dying hours, without an opportunity of confessing my
errors and asking her forgiveness: to think of these alone, is sufficient to break my very
heart. Nor is this all. She to whose loving heart I pledged my affections as a bond of an eternal
union, has become the life-companion of another. But I reproach her not for so doing. She was
faithful; I alone was false. She had hoped against hope; and not until she had despaired of
my return did she seek out a help-mate and home for herself. It is only another unfortunate
circumstance of my life. I feel deeply the wound it has inflicted; but I will not avenge it.
My life is apparently a life of troubles, and like Job of old I am ready to curse the day of
my birth. I, myself, may be the author of it all; but it seems to me that some demon, like
the evil spirit of King Saul, has taken possession of life's-citadel, and strews my pathway
with pandoric ills."

"My dear sir, I do really sympathise with you in your affliction," said I. "But under such
trying circumstances confide in God and he will be your friend indeed."

"But for me there is no Balm in Gilead: there is no physician there," he exclaimed. "As a fallen
sinner I again sought for balm in the Vineyard of Satan. I had recourse to the demon-wizard
of intoxication, and drank from his enchanted bowl. It was impossible to live and do otherwise;
for elsewhere I could find no consolation for my grief. I drank deeply for two days and two
nights after having received the letter. I then resumed my work: and with a saddened heart
and a weakened constitution, labored until three days ago, when, I again broke the bonds of
my resolutions. To-day I am sobering off myself: and when my bottle is emptied of its contents,
I shall drink no more."

Saying this, he took from his trunk a bottle half-full with liquor.

"Look here," said he. "You see how short a distance is now between me and total-abstinence.
But, my dear friend, I will not insult your feelings by tasting of it in your presence."

Therewith he returned the bottle to its place. In answer to my enquiries he stated that he
still intended to return to England in December, and for that purpose had resolved to economise
his time and means, and never taste of liquor again.

"Ah," said he, "liquor and evil company have been my ruin. Through the influence of bad companions
I first broke the pledge when at Tiverton: and by doing so at that time, I upset all my projected
designs. I have been re-building and upsetting ever since; but somehow my superstructure appears
to have no solid basis. However, I am determined to try once more and make amends for the past."

I told him that I intended in the course of a few days to go on as far as New London, and would
be absent at least a month. I would then return by way of Hamilton, and accompany him as far
as Montreal, on my way home: it being about the time he purposed leaving for England. He appeared
to be delighted with the idea of so doing, and heartily thanked me for the kindness I shewed
towards him.

On the following morning he resumed his work apparently with renewed cheerfulness and vigor;
and during the ten days I remained in Hamilton he improved rapidly in both body and spirit.
We met together every evening and passed an hour or two very pleasantly, and I may add, profitably.
He never once tasted of liquor during that time; but seemed more determined than ever to resist
its temptation. I advised him to remove to some private boarding house; where he would be less
exposed to the influence of liquor and evil company: but he seemed unwilling to comply therewith
on account of his intended removal in so short a time. On the morning of that day on which
I left Hamilton I called at the shop, where he was vigorously at work. On bidding him good-bye,
I expressed a wish that he would remain true to the principle of total-abstinence, entreating
him to supplicate Divine aid to enable him to do so.

"There may be some breakers ahead" said he, "but I think I can steer in the right course now."

Then bidding each other good bye, we parted--never to meet again on earth.

On my return to Hamilton I called at the hotel and requested to see Frederick Charlston.

"O, he's gone, sir," abruptly ejaculated the innkeeper.

"Gone, sir!" said I. "Where, and when did he go?"

"Well, all I can say about him, is that he went off to his grave about a week ago," he replied.

"Do you mean to say that Frederick Charlston is dead?" said I.

"Why, yes, sir," said he, "the fellow's as flat as a board now."

"What was the cause of his death?" I inquired.

"Drinking more whiskey than he was able to hold, so he sprang a leak and sank, cargo and all,"
he replied, jokingly, with a humorous grin, endeavouring to be witty at the expense of his victim.

This unexpected intelligence struck me so forcibly that for several seconds I stood motionless
and bewildered. I then walked away with a sorrowful heart indeed. I could scarcely give credence
to the announcement until it was confirmed by the upholsterer whom I called upon, and who related
the following circumstances connected with the death of poor unfortunate Frederick Charlston.

"Two weeks ago last Thursday night," said he, "a couple of fast youths who were carousing merrily
at the hotel, persuaded Frederick to take a sip with them. But one taste was sufficient to
rouse up the evil spirit again within his bosom. He drank deeply that night and for two days
continued his carousal; but was at length turned out upon the street by the innkeeper for disturbing
the necessitated quietness of the Saturday night. He found his way to the woodshed, where he
laid himself down and fell asleep. How could wigs be made unless there were bald heads. And how
wrong it was to divert any class of persons, under the shallow pretence of making them wiser
and better, from the making of bald heads. There would be the deuce toupee if this kind of
thing were to be encouraged, and their tonsorial constituents would bring them to the Scratch
on this question. He was proud to say that he was an Old Wig. Others might hold with the hair
on this question. He would run with the Shampooers and the Shawnees.

Mr. CARPENTER, who can see as clearly through a ladder as almost any body in the Senate, suggested
that there were no such Quakers, and that he didn't believe there were any such Shawnees. It
was an evident little "land-grab," got up by some of Mr. MORTON'S constituents, and the Quakers
were hypothecated to promote it. He did not object to Quakers occupying lands, but he did
object to a Christianized Shawnee. He had found that a converted Shawnee would steal considerably
more than an unregenerate one, and that he would steal various articles of the toilet which the wild
Shawnee had no use for.

Mr. CAMERON wanted some money for the Pennsylvania soldiers who had come first to defend the capital. He
thought these men ought to be rewarded. A good many of them had been
re-Warded in Philadelphia on election day, in order to express their
political views with more frequency. That was partly the cause of
his being in the Senate, and he wanted something done.

       *       *       *       *       *

The history of Frederick Charlston is now told. His career was brief. It is however pregnant
with unfortunate events, and contains excellent material for moral reflection. It is in itself
a lesson for the young and the inexperienced, showing the sad results of a self-willed confidence,
the love of vain-glory in adventure, the yielding of moral principles to gratify the desire
of either oneself or that of others:--and worse than all, the sacrificing of the nobler attributes
of human nature to the insidious wiles of evil society and intoxicating liquor. Millions of
young men, as moral and as self-confident as Frederick Charlston, have been physically and
morally ruined as he was. Once yielding a little to immoral influence gives the first impetus
to a downward tendency. Continue to repeat it, and the inertia becomes stronger, and the descent
more easy.

"I see no harm in a social glass with a friend," cries one.

"Let cold-water-fanatics preach until doomsday and hurl their anathemas against inebriates,"
exclaims another, "but they never shall prevent me from taking my occasional glass."

"Nor I," says a third. "An occasional glass with a companion is the very life-spring of social
nature. It assimilates one mind with another. It dispels sadness, and invigorates both soul
and body. It opens up the fountains of the heart, and joy gushes out, sparkling with wit and
melody. Wherefore then should I deprive myself of those blessings, on purpose to gratify the
whims of some cold-water quack? Wherefore then should I bind my liberties with a pledge as
a safe-guard to prevent me from becoming a drunkard? If other men have been foolish enough
to allow themselves to become drunkards by abusing one of the precious gifts of nature, is
that sufficient reason that I should not drink? I think not. I am no drunkard, nor shall I
become one; therefore I will do as I please with my own liberty and independence."

Such is indeed the false philosophy of too many moderate drinkers. No man is a confirmed drunkard
at once. It is by degrees that men generally become inebriates. "Take but a glass," says the
recruiting sergeant of Bacchus, "it will do you no harm." But one glass is but the starting
point. It is the magnet that attracts material akin to itself. What a world of degradation
has been generated by this nucleus of intemperance.

Intoxicating liquor is indeed the most prolific source of wretchedness and crime. It has been
and still is the greatest curse to humanity. It is the curse of curses. The grave is filled
with its wrecks. The fire of hell is fed by its fuel. Millions upon millions of human beings
has it hurled down to the blackest regions of eternity. Here it was necessary that the terms of
the compact should be settled by which the spoils of the world should be divided among them; and here
they met, these three men, on a small river island, remote from the world--where, as it is supposed,
each might think himself secure from the other. Antony and Lepidus were men old in craft--Antony
in middle life, and Lepidus somewhat older. Cæsar was just twenty-one; but from all that we
have been able to gather as to that meeting, he was fully able to hold his own with his elders.

Nay, call it not happiness that sparkles in the eye of the rum-drinker and softens his heart
and tongue into kindred sympathy with each other. Happiness arises not from the flickerings
of the brain when heated by the reeking fumes of the liquor glass. Nor does it arise from the
fervid impulses of the heart when excited by the steaming vapors of the rum bowl. Neither does
it exist in the fluctuating feelings of animal nature when stimulated into action by the demon-spirit
of the brandy bottle. Nor does happiness consist in the wild revelry of human beings, like
madmen, recklessly sporting their fantastic tricks around the unhallowed altar of Bacchus.
Nay, term it not happiness, call it rather by the name of insanity.

In conclusion, if any of my readers are addicted to intemperance, or take only an occasional
glass, with a friend, let me entreat of you to consider this momentous subject: to crush the
bottle-serpent ere its fangs have pierced you fatally to the heart; and at once and forever,
to dash the accursed bowl to the earth.

Once more, I earnestly entreat of you to pause and reflect. Think of the countless millions
of human beings who have been utterly ruined soul and body forever by intemperance; think of
the immeasurable mass of wretchedness and crime arising therefrom. Think of your present condition
and your eternal future; and remember also that every man, even in his greatest strength is
but a fallable creature; and finally my dear readers I ask of you to consider seriously the
life, career and death of poor unfortunate Frederick Charlston.

Finis.

       *       *       *       *       *

The foregoing story is the first of a series entitled--"Tales for Canadian Homes;" the others
will appear in serial form in the columns of the Canadian Garland, a Weekly Newspaper, which
the author intends to establish shortly, in the Village of Durham, Ormstown, County of Chateauguay,
P. Q.

    ANDREW L. SPEDON,
        St. Jean Chrysostom,
            Chateauguay Co., P.Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Poetic Wreath.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

LIFE'S STRUGGLE.

    Our life is but a struggle here,
    'Mid good and ill, 'twixt hope and fear,
    Thro' dang'rous channels oft we steer,
            With reckless force;
    But self-made ills make life's career
            A rougher course.

    The world is but a human hive;
    To keep the varied swarm alive,
    Its working bees must toil and strive,
            While others feast.
    The lazy drones appear to thrive,
            Yet work the least.

    The world appears a battle-field,
    The stronger rule, the weaker yield,
    The golden nerves too often wield
            The power which leads,
    While justice' scales are oft conceal'd
            By selfish deeds. 

    Mr. CONKLING said he thought he could suggest
    a compromise, on a mulatto from New-York who
    died in 1858.
            
    Mr. SUMNER called the Eyes and Nose
            on Mr. CONKLING, and Mr. CONKLING said his eyes were blue, but his
nose was very flat.

    
    
    Mr. SUMNER thought this would be satisfactory.

HOUSE.

Mr.
            BINGHAM made
    a speech ostensibly upon the Tariff,
            but really about BUTLER. He said that BUTLER didn't take Fort Fisher.
This is a favorite joke of BINGHAM'S. As to Mr. BUTLER'S opinion of
his treatment of Mrs. SURRATT, he didn't care.

    How many a life's an idle waste,
    Its destined glory seems disgraced,
    Its vile possessor has defaced
            The man divine,
    That not a single mark is traced
            Of God's design.

    Man's but a child, a restless boy,
    His life a game, the world his toy,
    He strives for something to enjoy
            Unjoy'd before,
    Tho' vicious tastes and passions cloy
            He longs for more.

    The lust for gold, the love of fame,
    The baser passions oft inflame,
    And blindly masks the honest name
            Of moral worth,
    When life exceeds no higher aim
            Than this vile earth.

    Our souls the golden god inspires,
    And feeds the life-destroying fires,
    Until the fevered heart desires
            With selfish greed,
    More than it actually requires
            For nature's need.

    Life's hardest ills its spirit braves,
    O'er mountain-crags and ocean-waves,
    Then make ourselves the worst of slaves,
            A slave to self,
    To satisfy the thirst that craves
            For yellow pelf.

    The golden wand with magic art
    Throws out the power to charm the heart,
    But ah, we feel its bitter smart
            When selfish greed
    Has robb'd from life that better part
            We so much need.

    Alas, when gold absorbs our cares
    Life's wheels get dry, the axle wears,
    And heavier grows the load it bears,
            And faster driven,
    Its very dust defiles the prayers
            We send to heaven.

    Life's chariot wheels revolve with speed,
    Yet faster still we urge our steed,
    And scarcely slack the reins to feed
            Or ease its breath,
    The journey seems but short indeed,
            When closed in death.

    We haste it on with worldly care,
    Oppressive toil, and meagre fare,
    While sin and self-indulgence wear
            Our chariot wheels
    Increasing still the load they bear,
            With countless ills.

    How discontented life appears,
    By every wind its compass veers,
    Our hopes are tarnish'd by the fears
            Of fancied ill,
    Even tho' the sun of Fortune cheers,
            We grumble still.

    But why complain for everything
    That gives our life a random sting;
    Altho' we shift our tether-string
            To please our will,
    We'll always find the change will bring
            Both good and ill.

    Then why should we contract our sight
    When life turns down the side that's bright
    The blast that blows us ills to-night,
            With cankering sorrow. Xenophanes
    had declared that everything was one whole,
            and that it was a god, everlasting, eternal, never born and never
dying, but round in his shape!

    Parmenides thought that it was
    fire that moved the earth. Leucippus
    believed it to be "plenum et inane."
            What "full and empty"
    may mean I cannot tell; but Democritus
            could, for he believed in it--though in other matters he went a little
farther!

    Empedocles sticks to the old four
    elements. Heraclitus is all for
    fire.
            

    But may we daily strive to win
    That happy world which knows no sin,
    'Tis on the heaven we form within
            Our bliss depends,
    Where life celestial shall begin,
            Which never ends.

INDIAN SUMMER.

    While winter in the dreary North
    Lies crouching ready to leap forth,
    In "Indian Summer" doth appear
    The gentle seasons of the year.

    As if they came to shed their bloom
    Around their excavated tomb,
    To hold their parting interview,
    And bid their native world adieu.

    The leaves that linger on the trees
    Are smiling in the sunny breeze,
    And chanting forth with holy breath
    The mournful requiem of their death.

    The desert-fields, tho' bleak and bare,
    Seem lovely through the sun-lit air;
    The very shades are glowing bright
    Beneath the golden mellow light.

    Rejoicing in their freedom still,
    On cultured field and pastur'd hill,
    The cattle crops the fading grass,
    And bless the moments as they pass.

    The ploughman and his trusty team
    More happy and contented seem,
    From golden rays the furrow'd field
    A golden harvest yet may yield.

    From bough to bough in yonder wood
    The squirrel frisks in happy mood,
    While searching round in hopes to find
    That some few nuts are left behind.

    The summer-birds that yearly fly
    To yonder Southern sunny sky,
    Are hovering round on lingering wing,
    And fancy 'tis returning Spring.

    While these sweet hours are gliding by,
    How calmly smiles the solemn sky,
    With golden hues of radiance bright,
    As if it were the cream of light.

    It seems as if an angel's wing
    Had wafted back the breath of Spring,
    To animate the ling'ring breath
    Of Autumn on the bed of death.

    Or from the rays of heavenly dews
    Had gilt the earth in rainbow hues,
    And o'er the sky so gently flung
    The air that once o'er Eden hung.

    'Tis but the calm before the storm;
    The flush of earth's consumptive form;
    The hopeful smile, the fever'd breath,
    Before the stern approach of death.

THE SHADOW OF THE HOUSEHOLD.

    There is a sympathy in love
      We bear for those who mourn,
    Whose shadows of departed joys
      With every thought return.
    'Tis hard to stem the stream of grief
      That floods the parents' heart
    When death unvails embosom'd hopes,
      And throws its fatal dart.

    The nursling of a mother's love,
      That nestles on her breast,
    Is but a life, celestial gift,
      By God's own seal impress'd.
    And when its prattling lips rejoice
      In innocent delight
    The parents' love and cherish'd hope,
      With tenfold power unite.

