SKETCHES NEW AND OLD

by Mark Twain

Part 2.  You are blind to the fact that most old men in America smoke and drink coffee, although,
according to your theory, they ought to have died young; and that hearty old Englishmen drink
wine and survive it, and portly old Dutchmen both drink and smoke freely, and yet grow older
and fatter all the time.  And you never by to find out how much solid comfort, relaxation,
and enjoyment a man derives from smoking in the course of a lifetime (which is worth ten times
the money he would save by letting it alone), nor the appalling aggregate of happiness lost
in a lifetime your kind of people from not smoking.  Now you know these things yourself, don't you?

"YOUNG AUTHOR."--Yes, Agassiz does recommend authors to eat fish, because the phosphorus in
it makes brain.  So far you are correct.  But I cannot help you to a decision about the amount
you need to eat--at least, not with certainty.  If the specimen composition you send is about
your fair usual average, I should judge that perhaps a couple of whales would be all you would
want for the present.  Not the largest kind, but simply good, middling-sized whales.

"SIMON WHEELER," Sonora.--The following simple and touching remarks and accompanying poem have
just come to hand from the rich gold-mining region of Sonora:

     To Mr. Mark Twain: The within parson, which I have set to poetry
     under the name and style of "He Done His Level Best," was one among
     the whitest men I ever see, and it ain't every man that knowed him
     that can find it in his heart to say he's glad the poor cuss is
     busted and gone home to the States.  He was here in an early day,
     and he was the handyest man about takin' holt of anything that come
     along you most ever see, I judge.  He was a cheerful, stirnn'
     cretur, always doin' somethin', and no man can say he ever see him
     do anything by halvers.  Preachin was his nateral gait, but he
     warn't a man to lay back a twidle his thumbs because there didn't
     happen to be nothin' do in his own especial line--no, sir, he was a
     man who would meander forth and stir up something for hisself.  His
     last acts was to go his pile on "Kings-and" (calkatin' to fill, but
     which he didn't fill), when there was a "flush" out agin him, and
     naterally, you see, he went under.  And so he was cleaned out as you
     may say, and he struck the home-trail, cheerful but flat broke.  I
     knowed this talonted man in Arkansaw, and if you would print this
     humbly tribute to his gorgis abilities, you would greatly obleege
     his onhappy friend.

                    HE DONE HIS LEVEL BEST
                    Was he a mining on the flat--
                    He done it with a zest;
                    Was he a leading of the choir--
                    He done his level best.

                    If he'd a reg'lar task to do,
                    He never took no rest;
                    Or if 'twas off-and-on-the same--
                    He done his level best.

                    If he was preachin' on his beat,
                    He'd tramp from east to west,
                    And north to south-in cold and heat
                    He done his level best.

                    He'd yank a sinner outen (Hades),**
                    And land him with the blest;
                    Then snatch a prayer'n waltz in again,
                    And do his level best.

     **Here I have taken a slight liberty with the original MS.  "Hades"
     does not make such good meter as the other word of one syllable, but
     it sounds better.

                    He'd cuss and sing and howl and pray,
                    And dance and drink and jest,
                    And lie and steal--all one to him--
                    He done his level best.

                    Whate'er this man was sot to do,
                    He done it with a zest;
                    No matter what his contract was,
                    HE'D DO HIS LEVEL BEST.

Verily, this man was gifted with "gorgis abilities," and it is a happiness to me to embalm
the memory of their luster in these columns. If it were not that the poet crop is unusually
large and rank in California this year, I would encourage you to continue writing, Simon Wheeler;
but, as it is, perhaps it might be too risky in you to enter against so much opposition.

"PROFESSIONAL BEGGAR."--NO; you are not obliged to take greenbacks at par.

"MELTON MOWBRAY," Dutch Flat.--This correspondent sends a lot of doggerel, and says it has
been regarded as very good in Dutch Flat.

There, that will do.  That may be very good Dutch Flat poetry, but it won't do in the metropolis.
It is too smooth and blubbery; it reads like butter milk gurgling from a jug.  What the people
ought to have is something spirited--something like "Johnny Comes Marching Home."  However
keep on practising, and you may succeed yet.  There is genius in you, but too much blubber.

     "ST. CLAIR HIGGINS." Los Angeles.--"My life is a failure; I have
     adored, wildly, madly, and she whom I love has turned coldly from me
     and shed her affections upon another.  What would you advise me to
     do?"

You should set your affections on another also--or on several, if there are enough to go round.
Also, do everything you can to make your former flame unhappy.  There is an absurd idea disseminated
in novels, that the happier a girl is with another man, the happier it makes the old lover
she has blighted.  Don't allow yourself to believe any such nonsense as that.  The more cause
that girl finds to regret that she did not marry you, the more comfortable you will feel over
it.  It isn't poetical, but it is mighty sound doctrine.

     "ARITHMETICUS." Virginia, Nevada.--"If it would take a cannon-ball
     3 and 1/3 seconds to travel four miles, and 3 and 3/8 seconds to
     travel the next four, and 3 and 5/8 to travel the next four, and if
     its rate of progress continued to diminish in the same ratio, how
     long would it take it to go fifteen hundred million miles?"

I don't know.

"AMBITIOUS LEARNER," Oakland.--Yes; you are right America was not discovered by Alexander Selkirk.

     "DISCARDED LOVER."--"I loved, and still love, the beautiful Edwitha
     Howard, and intended to marry her.  Yet, during my temporary absence
     at Benicia, last week, alas! she married Jones.  Is my happiness to
     be thus blasted for life? Have I no redress?"

Of course you have.  All the law, written and unwritten, is on your side. The intention and
not the act constitutes crime--in other words, constitutes the deed.  If you call your bosom
friend a fool, and intend it for an insult, it is an insult; but if you do it playfully, and
meaning no insult, it is not an insult.  If you discharge a pistol accidentally, and kill a
man, you can go free, for you have done no murder; but if you try to kill a man, and manifestly
intend to kill him, but fail utterly to do it, the law still holds that the intention constituted
the crime, and you are guilty of murder.  Ergo, if you had married Edwitha accidentally, and
without really intending to do it, you would not actually be married to her at all, because
the act of marriage could not be complete without the intention.  And ergo, in the strict spirit
of the law, since you deliberately intended to marry Edwitha, and didn't do it, you are married
to her all the same--because, as I said before, the intention constitutes the crime.  It is
as clear as day that Edwitha is your wife, and your redress lies in taking a club and mutilating
Jones with it as much as you can.  Any man has a right to protect his own wife from the advances
of other men.  But you have another alternative--you were married to Edwitha first, because
of your deliberate intention, and now you can prosecute her for bigamy, in subsequently marrying
Jones.  But there is another phase in this complicated case:  You intended to marry Edwitha,
and consequently, according to law, she is your wife--there is no getting around that; but
she didn't marry you, and if she never intended to marry you, you are not her husband, of course.
Ergo, in marrying Jones, she was guilty of bigamy, because she was the wife of another man
at the time; which is all very well as far as it goes--but then, don't you see, she had no
other husband when she married Jones, and consequently she was not guilty of bigamy.  Now,
according to this view of the case, Jones married a spinster, who was a widow at the same time
and another man's wife at the same time, and yet who had no husband and never had one, and
never had any intention of getting married, and therefore, of course, never had been married;
and by the same reasoning you are a bachelor, because you have never been any one's husband;
and a married man, because you have a wife living; and to all intents and purposes a widower,
because you have been deprived of that wife; and a consummate ass for going off to Benicia
in the first place, while things were so mixed. It was in October, 1872, I joined the staff of the
Daily News, having, under Mr. Robinson's watchful eye, gone through a period of probation as contributor
of occasional articles descriptive of current events. I might, in the ordinary course of events,
have continued in that line, as my friend and colleague Senior has done these twenty years,
with honour to himself and credit to the paper. But here, again, chance befell and irresistibly led me
back to the Press Gallery.

"ARTHUR AUGUSTUS."--No; you are wrong; that is the proper way to throw a brickbat or a tomahawk;
but it doesn't answer so well for a bouquet; you will hurt somebody if you keep it up.  Turn
your nosegay upside down, take it by the stems, and toss it with an upward sweep.  Did you
ever pitch quoits? that is the idea.  The practice of recklessly heaving immense solid bouquets,
of the general size and weight of prize cabbages, from the dizzy altitude of the galleries,
is dangerous and very reprehensible.  Now, night before last, at the Academy of Music, just
after Signorina had finished that exquisite melody, "The Last Rose of Summer," one of these
floral pile-drivers came cleaving down through the atmosphere of applause, and if she hadn't
deployed suddenly to the right, it would have driven her into the floor like a shinglenail.
Of course that bouquet was well meant; but how would you like to have been the target?  A sincere
compliment is always grateful to a lady, so long as you don't try to knock her down with it.

"YOUNG MOTHER."--And so you think a baby is a thing of beauty and a joy forever?  Well, the
idea is pleasing, but not original; every cow thinks the same of its own calf. Perhaps the
cow may not think it so elegantly, but still she thinks it nevertheless.  I honor the cow for
it.  We all honor this touching maternal instinct wherever we find it, be it in the home of
luxury or in the humble cow-shed.  But really, madam, when I come to examine the matter in
all its bearings, I find that the correctness of your assertion does not assert itself in all
cases. A soiled baby, with a neglected nose, cannot be conscientiously regarded as a thing
of beauty; and inasmuch as babyhood spans but three short years, no baby is competent to be
a joy "forever."  It pains me thus to demolish two-thirds of your pretty sentiment in a single
sentence; but the position I hold in this chair requires that I shall not permit you to deceive
and mislead the public with your plausible figures of speech. I know a female baby, aged eighteen
months, in this city, which cannot hold out as a "joy" twenty-four hours on a stretch, let
alone "forever." And it possesses some of the most remarkable eccentricities of character and
appetite that have ever fallen under my notice.  I will set down here a statement of this infant's
operations (conceived, planned, and earned out by itself, and without suggestion or assistance
from its mother or any one else), during a single day; and what I shall say can be substantiated
by the sworn testimony of witnesses.

It commenced by eating one dozen large blue-mass pills, box and all; then it fell down a flight
of stairs, and arose with a blue and purple knot on its forehead, after which it proceeded
in quest of further refreshment and amusement. It found a glass trinket ornamented with brass-work
--smashed up and ate the glass, and then swallowed the brass. Then it drank about twenty drops
of laudanum, and more than a dozen tablespoonfuls of strong spirits of camphor.  The reason
why it took no more laudanum was because there was no more to take.  After this it lay down
on its back, and shoved five or six, inches of a silver-headed whalebone cane down its throat;
got it fast there, and it was all its mother could do to pull the cane out again, without pulling
out some of the child with it.  Then, being hungry for glass again, it broke up several wine
glasses, and fell to eating and swallowing the fragments, not minding a cut or two.  Then it
ate a quantity of butter, pepper, salt, and California matches, actually taking a spoonful
of butter, a spoonful of salt, a spoonful of pepper, and three or four lucifer matches at each
mouthful. (I will remark here that this thing of beauty likes painted German lucifers, and
eats all she can get of them; but she prefers California matches, which I regard as a compliment
to our home manufactures of more than ordinary value, coming, as it does, from one who is too
young to flatter.)  Then she washed her head with soap and water, and afterward ate what soap
was left, and drank as much of the suds as she had room for; after which she sallied forth
and took the cow familiarly by the tail, and got kicked heels over head.  At odd times during
the day, when this joy forever happened to have nothing particular on hand, she put in the
time by climbing up on places, and falling down off them, uniformly damaging her self in the
operation.  As young as she is, she speaks many words tolerably distinctly; and being plain
spoken in other respects, blunt and to the point, she opens conversation with all strangers,
male or female, with the same formula, "How do, Jim?"

Not being familiar with the ways of children, it is possible that I have been magnifying into
matter of surprise things which may not strike any one who is familiar with infancy as being
at all astonishing.  However, I cannot believe that such is the case, and so I repeat that
my report of this baby's performances is strictly true; and if any one doubts it, I can produce
the child.  I will further engage that she will devour anything that is given her (reserving
to myself only the right to exclude anvils), and fall down from any place to which she may
be elevated (merely stipulating that her preference for alighting on her head shall be respected,
and, therefore, that the elevation chosen shall be high enough to enable her to accomplish
this to her satisfaction).  But I find I have wandered from my subject; so, without further
argument, I will reiterate my conviction that not all babies are things of beauty and joys forever.

     "ARITHMETICUS." Virginia, Nevada.--"I am an enthusiastic student of
     mathematics, and it is so vexatious to me to find my progress
     constantly impeded by these mysterious arithmetical technicalities.
     Now do tell me what the difference is between geometry and
     conchology?"

Here you come again with your arithmetical conundrums, when I am suffering death with a cold
in the head.  If you could have seen the expression of scorn that darkened my countenance a
moment ago, and was instantly split from the center in every direction like a fractured looking-glass
by my last sneeze, you never would have written that disgraceful question.  Conchology is a
science which has nothing to do with mathematics; it relates only to shells.  At the same time,
however, a man who opens oysters for a hotel, or shells a fortified town, or sucks eggs, is
not, strictly speaking, a conchologist-a fine stroke of sarcasm that, but it will be lost on
such an unintellectual clam as you.  Now compare conchology and geometry together, and you
will see what the difference is, and your question will be answered.  But don't torture me
with any more arithmetical horrors until you know I am rid of my cold.  I feel the bitterest
animosity toward you at this moment-bothering me in this way, when I can do nothing but sneeze
and rage and snort pocket-handkerchiefs to atoms.  If I had you in range of my nose now I would
blow your brains out.

TO RAISE POULTRY

--[Being a letter written to a Poultry Society that had conferred a complimentary membership
upon the author.  Written about 1870.]

Seriously, from early youth I have taken an especial interest in the subject of poultry-raising,
and so this membership touches a ready sympathy in my breast.  Even as a schoolboy, poultry-raising
was a study with me, and I may say without egotism that as early as the age of seventeen I
was acquainted with all the best and speediest methods of raising chickens, from raising them
off a roost by burning lucifer matches under their noses, down to lifting them off a fence
on a frosty night by insinuating the end of a warm board under their heels.  By the time I
was twenty years old, I really suppose I had raised more poultry than any one individual in
all the section round about there.  The very chickens came to know my talent by and by.  The
youth of both sexes ceased to paw the earth for worms, and old roosters that came to crow,
"remained to pray," when I passed by.

I have had so much experience in the raising of fowls that I cannot but think that a few hints
from me might be useful to the society.  The two methods I have already touched upon are very
simple, and are only used in the raising of the commonest class of fowls; one is for summer,
the other for winter.  In the one case you start out with a friend along about eleven o'clock'
on a summer's night (not later, because in some states --especially in California and Oregon--chickens
always rouse up just at midnight and crow from ten to thirty minutes, according to the ease
or difficulty they experience in getting the public waked up), and your friend carries with
him a sack.  Arrived at the henroost (your neighbor's, not your own), you light a match and
hold it under first one and then another pullet's nose until they are willing to go into that
bag without making any trouble about it.  You then return home, either taking the bag with
you or leaving it behind, according as circumstances shall dictate.  N. B.--I have seen the
time when it was eligible and appropriate to leave the sack behind and walk off with considerable
velocity, without ever leaving any word where to send it.

In the case of the other method mentioned for raising poultry, your friend takes along a covered
vessel with a charcoal fire in it, and you carry a long slender plank.  This is a frosty night,
understand.  Arrived at the tree, or fence, or other henroost (your own if you are an idiot),
you warm the end of your plank in your friend's fire vessel, and then raise it aloft and ease
it up gently against a slumbering chicken's foot. If the subject of your attentions is a true
bird, he will infallibly return thanks with a sleepy cluck or two, and step out and take up
quarters on the plank, thus becoming so conspicuously accessory before the fact to his own
murder as to make it a grave question in our minds as it once was in the mind of Blackstone,
whether he is not really and deliberately, committing suicide in the second degree.  [But you
enter into a contemplation of these legal refinements subsequently not then.]

When you wish to raise a fine, large, donkey voiced Shanghai rooster, you do it with a lasso,
just as you would a bull.  It is because he must choked, and choked effectually, too.  It is
the only good, certain way, for whenever he mentions a matter which he is cordially interested
in, the chances are ninety-nine in a hundred that he secures somebody else's immediate attention
to it too, whether it day or night. 

It was better than any play I ever saw!

SIR W.: It's all been in sober earnest, I assure you.

(LADY FLO recovers slightly. Looks first at JEM, then at KITTY, and lastly at SIR WILLIAM.)
LADY FLO (slowly): You call--all--this--a little comedy? (Recovers
more, but very gradually.)

KITTY: Why, yes! Don't attempt to say
it wasn't--(slyly)--especially after all you told me this morning
about how cleverly you manage my uncle. Just let me see you glance
at him in the way you said you could.  The reason I recommend this method is
that, the birds being so valuable, the owners do not permit them to roost around promiscuously,
they put them in a coop as strong as a fireproof safe and keep it in the kitchen at night.
The method I speak of is not always a bright and satisfying success, and yet there are so many
little articles of vertu about a kitchen, that if you fail on the coop you can generally bring
away something else.  I brought away a nice steel trap one night, worth ninety cents.

But what is the use in my pouring out my whole intellect on this subject? I have shown the
Western New York Poultry Society that they have taken to their bosom a party who is not a spring
chicken by any means, but a man who knows all about poultry, and is just as high up in the
most efficient methods of raising it as the president of the institution himself. I thank these
gentlemen for the honorary membership they have conferred upon me, and shall stand at all times
ready and willing to testify my good feeling and my official zeal by deeds as well as by this
hastily penned advice and information.  Whenever they are ready to go to raising poultry, let
them call for me any evening after eleven o'clock.

EXPERIENCE OF THE McWILLIAMSES WITH MEMBRANOUS CROUP

[As related to the author of this book by Mr. McWilliams, a pleasant New York gentleman whom
the said author met by chance on a journey.]

Well, to go back to where I was before I digressed to explain to you how that frightful and
incurable disease, membranous croup,[Diphtheria D.W.] was ravaging the town and driving all
mothers mad with terror, I called Mrs. McWilliams's attention to little Penelope, and said:

"Darling, I wouldn't let that child be chewing that pine stick if I were you."

"Precious, where is the harm in it?"  said she, but at the same time preparing to take away
the stick for women cannot receive even the most palpably judicious suggestion without arguing
it, that is married women.

I replied:

"Love, it is notorious that pine is the least nutritious wood that a child can eat."

My wife's hand paused, in the act of taking the stick, and returned itself to her lap.  She
bridled perceptibly, and said:

"Hubby, you know better than that.  You know you do.  Doctors all say that the turpentine in
pine wood is good for weak back and the kidneys."

"Ah--I was under a misapprehension.  I did not know that the child's kidneys and spine were
affected, and that the family physician had recommended--"

"Who said the child's spine and kidneys were affected?"

"My love, you intimated it."

"The idea!  I never intimated anything of the kind."

"Why, my dear, it hasn't been two minutes since you said--"

"Bother what I said!  I don't care what I did say.  There isn't any harm in the child's chewing
a bit of pine stick if she wants to, and you know it perfectly well.  And she shall chew it,
too.  So there, now!"

"Say no more, my dear.  I now see the force of your reasoning, and I will go and order two
or three cords of the best pine wood to-day.  No child of mine shall want while I--"

"Oh, please go along to your office and let me have some peace.  A body can never make the
simplest remark but you must take it up and go to arguing and arguing and arguing till you
don't know what you are talking about, and you never do."

"Very well, it shall be as you say.  But there is a want of logic in your last remark which--"

However, she was gone with a flourish before I could finish, and had taken the child with her.
That night at dinner she confronted me with a face a white as a sheet:

"Oh, Mortimer, there's another!  Little Georgi Gordon is taken."

"Membranous croup?"

"Membranous croup."

"Is there any hope for him?"

"None in the wide world.  Oh, what is to be come of us!"

By and by a nurse brought in our Penelope to say good night and offer the customary prayer
at the mother's knee.  In the midst of "Now I lay me down to sleep," she gave a slight cough!
My wife fell back like one stricken with death.  But the next moment she was up and brimming
with the activities which terror inspires.

She commanded that the child's crib be removed from the nursery to our bedroom; and she went
along to see the order executed.  She took me with her, of course.  We got matters arranged
with speed.  A cot-bed was put up in my wife's dressing room for the nurse.  But now Mrs. McWilliams
said we were too far away from the other baby, and what if he were to have the symptoms in
the night--and she blanched again, poor thing.

We then restored the crib and the nurse to the nursery and put up a bed for ourselves in a
room adjoining.

Presently, however, Mrs. McWilliams said suppose the baby should catch it from Penelope?  This
thought struck a new panic to her heart, and the tribe of us could not get the crib out of
the nursery again fast enough to satisfy my wife, though she assisted in her own person and
well-nigh pulled the crib to pieces in her frantic hurry.

We moved down-stairs; but there was no place there to stow the nurse, and Mrs. McWilliams said
the nurse's experience would be an inestimable help. So we returned, bag and baggage, to our
own bedroom once more, and felt a great gladness, like storm-buffeted birds that have found
their nest again.

Mrs. McWilliams sped to the nursery to see how things were going on there.  She was back in
a moment with a new dread.  She said:

"What can make Baby sleep so?"

I said:

"Why, my darling, Baby always sleeps like a graven image."

"I know.  I know; but there's something peculiar about his sleep now. He seems to--to--he seems
to breathe so regularly.  Oh, this is dreadful."

"But, my dear, he always breathes regularly."

"Oh, I know it, but there's something frightful about it now.  His nurse is too young and inexperienced.
Maria shall stay there with her, and be on hand if anything happens."

"That is a good idea, but who will help you?"

"You can help me all I want.  I wouldn't allow anybody to do anything but myself, anyhow, at
such a time as this."

I said I would feel mean to lie abed and sleep, and leave her to watch and toil over our little
patient all the weary night.  But she reconciled me to it.  So old Maria departed and took
up her ancient quarters in the nursery.

Penelope coughed twice in her sleep.

