For there is no reconciliation between the facts of the world and the Absolute of philosophy
or the highly attributed Supreme Being of natural religion. One thing alone can meet the passion
of men--whether imposed upon them or self-inflicted--it is the passion of God in Christ whereby
His Love works out its victory. That alone can harness to itself the vitality and heroism of
men, which else will riot away in waste or flag in disillusion. That alone can be the constraining
object of their joy and praise, and the satisfaction of their adventurous devotion.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] 1 Peter i. 3.

XIII

There has been in this war a wonderful display of the heroism of men. But their thoughts about
God and religion are for the most part at a level below the highest in themselves. They have
come to themselves in giving themselves away. But they think that religion is mostly concerned
with self-saving. They tend to recognise most easily the signs of God's favour in this or that
instance of safety or escape. This means that they do not think of God in terms of Christ,
but that they think of Him as outside the trouble and pain and cost of life, and in the immunity
of heaven. They do not think of Him as involved in the risks and agonies of the world. Though
they do not formulate it to themselves, the glories of human nature go beyond anything they
know of the divine. For them God is less wonderful than man. A fine soldier protested to me
lately about the service which was read at the funeral of a very brave officer, "Why say more
than 'here is a very gallant soldier'?" as though there were nothing in the Author of our being
akin to the gallantry in man. Not that such a man would deny the idea, but that he and the
rest are not possessed by joy in its truth. Men of our race do not deny greatly, but then neither
do they joyfully assert. They have not received the good news of God in Christ.

XIV

We all need to be so possessed before peace comes back. For peace, as I have said, is the real
test of our religion, not war. We have been plunged into war, rejoicing little in God. We have
got to put Him and His will and desire first before peace returns. Or else the thought of Him
will sink out of our attention, and we shall return to the getting of gain and to self-service
in a mood of perpetual postponement. God will come last again. He did so in the minds of soldiers
at the beginning of the war. Often they looked upon chaplains as no more than preliminary undertakers.
At the beginning of the war, officers in my old regiment, in the friendliest way, asked me
what there was to do as a chaplain except burial duties. Clearly they thought of life as something
apart from God.

What is needed is a new joy in God as Love and Purpose, here and now. Need, whether the pressure
of sickness or danger or anxiety or age or guilt, will often operate in turning the heart God-ward.
The sense of being thrown in entire dependence upon God can be the God-given turning-point
in a man's life and an end to his godlessness. But need will never provide the lasting religious
motive which sets the chord of what is noblest in men vibrating within them. The peculiar glory
of the Christian religion is that it provides that motive--it is the motive of God's need.
He wants us, for He loves us. He is love.

I have found myself at the front pressed to ask men why they should have to do with religion.
Is it because they are on active service and exposed to danger and liable to death? Is that
to be the constraining motive? And, in particular, why pray? Is it to express their natural
sense of need, their desire for security and support? Is that to be the main impulse? I try
to answer these questions by asking them another question: 'Why do they write home?' What keeps
them at it in the damp dug-outs with the indelible pencil running smudgily over the paper?
Why do some men write every day? Is it for what they can get--the cakes, the fags? Does the
constraining motive lie in their own need? It does not. It lies in the joy which letters bring
to loving hearts at home. Likewise there is joy in Heaven when one forgetful wayward son turns
in heart thither homewards.

For God loves us and therefore wants us and desires to use us. It is what He is which is the
saving motive of our religion. Every other motive, however natural, is tainted with morbidity,
and can never long possess the eager hearts of men nor be their glory in the full tide of life.
But in God they can glory as they see what He is, at work with purposes of holy love in the
venture of creation; and this they can see in Christ, living, suffering, dying, rising, and
alive for evermore; or else Christianity is nothing in the world. That is the pure metal of
our glorious religion, which the fierce fires of war must refine out of its traditional alloy.
That is the great golden secret uttered in Christ--God, all-suffering and all-faithful love,
calling out into active alliance the like qualities in His children for the accomplishment
of His will on earth as in heaven.

XV

We need in peace the free and conscious realisation of that of which men are perforce, and
dumbly, aware in war. It is that there is something going on in the world which demands primary
allegiance, and the putting second of every self-interest. At the front men hardly know what
it is. They are suspicious of rhetoric and unreality in talk about liberty and international
equity, and right against might. They only know--a wonderful majority of them--that something
great and righteous wants them and requires of them their help. So, reluctantly, with grumblings
and insistent longing for it all to be over, and yet with the inalienable joy of doing the
right thing, they obstinately endure. We can say, without apportioning right wholesale to the
Allies or wrong wholesale to Germany, that, however dimly aware of it, they are 'seeking first
the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness.'

Can they maintain this allegiance in peace despite every seduction which will rush to recapture
their souls? That is the great question which all who call themselves Christians should be
considering on their knees while the war is still raging.

The answer lies in a great measure with the Church. She has to enlist in her warfare for the
kingdom of God--the war which is never over--that capacity in men for service and suffering
which the war has disclosed. How can this be? Would that I had no uncertain answer to utter!
I fling these cries out to comrades in the Lord that we may provoke one another to find the
answer. The answer cannot be merely an intellectual solution. It must be spelt out in terms
of costly devotion.

Some things are clear. First, the Church has to acknowledge that she is not the kingdom of
God but the means to it as an end. There are, I think, a great many carts and horses to be
changed round into their right relations. Religious observances and organisations--all the
whole apparatus of religion--have come to be looked upon as ends in themselves, whereas they
are means to an end beyond themselves. People think that the clergy's one concern is the success
of ecclesiastical activities and institutions. We clergy think so ourselves! It is not for
her own interests, which are by themselves incurably too small to evoke the heroic in men,
that the Church is in the world. She is in the world to change the world, so that its whole
extent may be filled with the glory of God, and may become worthy of the eternal destiny of
the souls of men. Hers is a high and costly venture. She has strongholds to storm--the entrenchments
where the forces of private-mindedness and apathy and money-worship are dug in. In the attempt
she can exhaust to its depths the capacity which is in men for dauntless sacrifice.

Secondly, if the Church's conception of her own interests must be changed, so must the individual's
conception of personal religion. Self-preoccupation is as fatal to the latter as to the former.
Personal piety is travestied by being thought to be a respectable prudence here for the sake
of a reward hereafter. It is not a careful self-salvation at all. Rather it is a salvation
from self. It is the being lost to self in devotion and service to God and one's fellow-men.

Lastly, if these changes are to be they depend on one thing--a new vision of God in Christ,
such as shall be for Church and individual the over-mastering counter-attraction to self. What
the world needs is theocracy. That is, not the imposition of ecclesiastical shackles upon secular
life, but the consecration of all life, with all its ever-multiplying treasures of knowledge
and power, to one object--the glory of God. If so, then God, as the centre and magnet of consecration,
must be all vitally apprehended. He must fill the horizon of the soul. He must be the delight
of men, to draw them out of themselves into childlike selflessness, so that as children they
may enter into the Kingdom.

XVI

There are objections, I know, which arise in the mind to this insistence on God and the will
or kingdom on which He is at work in the world, and they must be faced. It is easy, I feel,
to speak of the will of God in general terms. But what does it mean in particular? Can it be
known or defined? Is it practicable?

I remember being puzzled by a great religious teacher to whom I owe much--Father Kelly of the
Society of the Sacred Mission, Kelham. It was almost comic to me that in the same breath he
would urge (1) that the one thing needful was faith in God and in the will which He is accomplishing
in His world, and--with equal energy--(2) that no one could say what in the world that will
is. It reminded me of those philosophers who liken the meta-physical pursuit of the Absolute
to Lewis Carroll's Hunting of the Snark.

But there is something essential here. Christian faith in God and in His will is not sight,
else it were no venture. It does not bring with it a particularised programme to meet all the
changing and complex circumstances of life. It does not carry with it anticipatory knowledge.
Yet it is not an agnostic gazing into the mist of heaven. It is the looking unto Jesus. There
is light--light on His Cross, telling of the love and will and desire of God Who is marching on.

Given the attitude of faith in God and the belief that He is at work in human affairs, the
practical corollaries have to be worked out by the exertion of our faculties. If God and His
will be the end of our endeavour and the object of our co-operation, then the means towards
the end and the ways of co-operation must be arrived at, step by step, by effort and experiment,
by science and common sense. The endeavour to do God's will, will disclose what that will is.

After all, in every sphere of human relationships, whether in home or neighbourhood or business
or municipality or commonwealth, what is lacking is not the knowledge of what the kingdom of
God requires, but the will and motive and power to accomplish it. We are not short of knowledge;
rather we are weighed down by the power derived from new knowledge, for want of an end other
than our own selves to which to consecrate it. The means for transforming life and suffusing
it with new radiance abound as never before. It is the will which is lacking. If we will lift
up any department of life to God in the faith that He cares about it and has desires for it,
the next step to be taken will be apparent to conscience and reason.

XVII

Akin to the difficulty that the will of God is inscrutable and hard to know, is the protest
that to speak of Him as at work in the world to bring in His kingdom, is remote from the actualities
of daily life. As I have walked about in Flanders, turning over thoughts about the onward movement
of God's purposes in the world, I have met those matchless monuments of patient and unchanging
daily toil, the peasants working in the fields. Harnessed into the perpetual cycle of seed
time and harvest, what can this talk of movements and purposes in the great world be to them?
Is enthusiasm for the Kingdom of God possible only for those who are so removed from the drudgery
of existence that they can sit in the exhausted air of committee rooms and talk about it? Or
is it that under God's heaven and close to the soil men know better? Is there no room for great
expectations in those pressed down into the thick of things?

There is telling truth here, but it is not the last word. The old man in the fields--or is
it the old wrinkled woman doing more than one man's work?--knows that. They know that life
cannot fully be measured by the gauge of the individual's daily round. I do implore you this morning
not to think of me, but to think only of what will be best--best--best---- " He looked around
him for a moment bewildered, frowning in puzzled fashion at Ronder, then continued again, "best
for God and the work of His Church.

"I'm not very well, gentlemen; my thoughts are not coming very clearly this morning, and that
is sad, because I've looked forward to this morning for months past, wishing to fight my very best...."
His voice changed. "Yes, fight!" he cried.

"There should be no fight necessary in such a matter. But what has happened to us all in the
last year?

"A year ago there was not one of us who would have considered such an appointment as I am now disputing.
Have you read this man's books? Have you read in the papers his acknowledged utterances? Do
you know that he questions the Divinity of Christ Himself----"

"No, Archdeacon," Foster broke in, "that is not true.

You can have no evidence of that."

Brandon seemed to be entirely bewildered by the interruption. He looked at Foster, opened his mouth
as though he would speak, then suddenly put his hand to his head.

"If you will give me time," he said. "Give me time. I will prove everything, I will indeed. I
beg you," he said, suddenly turning to the Dean, "that you will have
this appointment postponed for a month.

It is so serious a matter that to decide hastily----"

"Not hastily," said the Dean very gently. "Morrison died some months ago, and I'm afraid it
is imperative that we should fill the vacancy this morning."

"Then consider what you do," Brandon cried, now half-rising from his chair. "This man is breaking
in upon the cherished beliefs of our Church. Give him a little and he will take everything. We
must all stand firm upon the true and Christian ground that the Church has given us, or where
shall we be?

This man may be good and devout, but he does not believe what we
believe.

Our Church-that we love--that we love----" He broke off again.

"You are against me. Every man's hand now is against me. Nevertheless what-I say is right and true.
What am I? What are you, any of you here in this room, beside God's truth? I have seen God, I have
walked with God, I shall walk with Him again.

He will lead me out of these sore distresses and take me into green pastures----"

He flushed. "I beg your pardon, gentlemen. I am taking your time. I must say something for Mr.
Forsyth.

He is young; he knows this place and loves it; he cares for and will preserve its most ancient
traditions....

"He cares for the things for which we should care. I do commend him to your attention----"

There was a long silence. The rain that had begun a thick drizzle dripped on the panes. The room
was so dark that the Dean asked Bond to light the gas. They all waited while this was being
done. At last the Dean spoke:

"We are all very grateful to you, Archdeacon, for helping us as you
have done.

I think, gentlemen, that unless there is some other name definitely to be proposed we had better
now vote on these two names.

"Is there any further name suggested?"

No one spoke.

"Very well, then. I think this morning, contrary to our usual custom, we will record our votes
on paper. I have Archdeacon Witheram's letter here advising me of
his wishes in this matter."

Paper and pens were before every one.
The votes were recorded and sent up to the Dean. He opened the little
pieces of paper slowly.

At last he said:

"One vote has been recorded
in favour of Mr. Forsyth, the rest for Mr. Wistons. Mr. Wistons is
therefore appointed to the living of Pybus St. Anthony."

Brandon
was on his feet. His body trembled like a tree tottering. He flung
out his hands.

"No.... No.... Stop one moment. You must. You--all
of you----

"Mr. Dean--all of you.... Oh, God, help me now!...You
have been influenced by your feelings about myself. Forget me, turn
me away, send me from the town, anything, anything.... I beseech you
to think only of the good of the Cathedral in this affair. If you
admit this man it is the beginning of the end. Slowly it will all
be undermined. Belief in Christ, belief in God Himself.... Think of
the future and your responsibility to the unborn children when they
come to you and say: 'Where is our faith? Why did you take it from
us? Give it back to us!' Oh, stop for a moment! Postpone this for
only a little while. Don't do this thing!...Gentlemen!"

They could
see that he was ill. His body swayed as though it were beyond his
control. His hands were waving, turning, beseeching....

Suddenly
tears were running down his cheeks.

"Not this shame!" he cried. "Not
this shame!--kill me--but save the Cathedral!"

They were on their
feet. Foster and Ryle had come round to him. "Archdeacon, sit down."
"You're ill." "Rest a moment" With a great heave of his shoulders
he flung them off, a chair falling to the ground with the movement.

He
saw Ronder.

"You!...my enemy. Are you satisfied now?" he whispered.
He held out his quivering hand. "Take my hand. "Ask and ye shall
receive." I can imagine that the conception of prayer at times of emergency, as suggested in
earlier pages, might be so full of resignation as to be reduced to the fatalism extraordinarily
prevalent at the front--"If it 'its yer, it 'its yer," as the men say. Are we not to ask not
to be hit?

It is nearly enough to recall the Lord's Prayer in regard to this objection. As I have said,
men on service widely associate prayer with the expression of need or anxiety. To restrict
prayer thus is to begin the Lord's Prayer half-way through, at "Give us this day our daily
bread." It is a question of order and emphasis. Christian prayer begins with God. It turns
away from self to the glory of God. It begins with praise and acclamation--the glad acknowledgment
of what God is and is doing. It is only in the second place and because of what God is--because
He is our Father and is at work to bring in His kingdom and has a will for us and for all--that
the prayer which expresses our need comes in aright.

Therefore I would say to a man going into battle--"Pray now if never before. Set God before
you as you see Him, as you can clearly apprehend Him, in Christ. He is your Father, you are
His son, however unworthy. Lift up your heart to Him Who, in and through all the turmoil around
you, presses onward with the business of His kingdom and the fulfilment of His heart's desire.
And commit all to Him. In trustful intimacy give utterance to your longing to be brought through
the perilous hour for service in His kingdom to the glory of His Name. Commit all to Him, asking
forgiveness. He knows what you have need of in life or in death--and let the rest go!"

For such prayer in the Name of Christ--that is, prayer in accordance with His mind and founded
on the character of God as made known in Him--there awaits undiscovered and unexhausted resources
of power. So Jesus told men. So Christian experience testifies. We have to pray truly Christ-wise,
not asking for stones to be made bread, not seeking to be hidden from life's storms, but to
be brought through them in faithful endurance.[4]

We have to pray as Christ prayed in Gethsemane in fellowship with His sufferings. But we have
also to pray as knowing the power of His Resurrection. We have to rise in faith to claim the
supernatural power which neither He used nor we may use merely for self-preservation, which
yet is to be set free in the service of the kingdom.

Prayer in the Name of Christ is not only the prayer of resignation, based on the self-committal
of Jesus our Brother into the hands of the Father. Such would ever tend, as uttered by our
trembling faith, towards fatalism. But it is also prayer in the Name of Him "Who was declared
to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection of the dead, even Jesus Christ our Lord."
It is the prayer of power--that power which was at Jesus' command, and was therefore the subject
of His temptation, and was drawn upon by the faith of sufferers and yet was unused by Jesus
to save Himself. This power is the power of God.

Here are heights where the air is charged with potentiality of new life, hardly dreamt of by
our faith on its low stagnant levels. Here are heights to be stormed by faithful unself-seeking
love. This way lies deliverance and new creation, and the breaking of prison bars and the turning
of our captivity such as shall fill all our mouths with laughter.

A few know that these words are not rhetorical. They know, with St. Paul, the riches of the
glory of Christ's inheritance in the saints. Such was Mary Slessor, pioneer missionary in West
Africa, the leaves of whose biography I happened to turn over as I was writing these pages.
She had frequently to take journeys through forests with leopards swarming around her. It is
the prayer which asks "not to be hit." It is more than resignation, it is the prayer of power.
It believes that there are hardly-tapped powers and possibilities in God for those who seek
first His kingdom and righteousness. We do not know much about such prayer in our present spiritual
sickness. But it is there, a weapon to be wielded by dauntless, simple faith.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Prayer after the mind of our Lord depends greatly on how we think of Him. The following
lines, written by a barrister, are, I think, a wholesome corrective of that which is too soft
in our conventional thought about our Saviour. Despite a false or partial note here and there,
they are nearer to Him than the thought underlying the first verse of the hymn--a great favourite
among the men owing to its tune--"Jesu, Lover of my Soul." Against his character no one, I suppose,
has anything to say. He is known before all the world as a God-fearing
Christian.

    He is no youth; he has had much experience;
    he is, every one witnesses, lovable
    and of strong personal charm. It is
    not his character, but his ideas,
    that people have criticised. He is a
    modernist, of course, a man of an enquiring,
    penetrating mind, who must himself
    be satisfied of the truth for which he is searching.

    Can that do us here any harm? I believe
    not. I think that some of us, if I may say
    so, are too easily frightened of the
    modern spirit of enquiry. I believe
    that we Churchmen should step forward
    ready to face any challenge, whether
    of scientists, psychologists or any one
    else--I think that before long, whether
    we like it or no, we shall have
    to do so.
    

    I would not to Thy bosom fly
    To slink off till the storms go by.
    If you are like the man you were
    You'ld turn with scorn from such a prayer,
    Unless from some poor workhouse crone,
    Too toil-worn to do aught but moan.
    Flog me and spur me, set me straight
    At some vile job I fear and hate:
    Some sickening round of long endeavour,
    No light, no rest, no outlet ever:
    All at a pace that must not slack,
    Tho' heart would burst and sinews crack:
    Fog in one's eyes, the brain a-swim,
    A weight like lead in every limb,
    And a raw pit that hurts like hell
    Where once the light breath rose and fell:
    Do you but keep me, hope or none,
    Cheery and staunch till all is done,
    And, at the last gasp, quick to lend
    One effort more to serve a friend.

    And when--for so I sometimes dream--
    I've swum the dark, the silent stream,
    So cold, it takes the breath away,
    That parts the dead world from the day,
    And see upon the further strand
    The lazy, listless angels stand,
    And with their frank and fearless eyes
    The comrades whom I most did prize:
    Then, clean, unburdened, careless, cool,
    I'll saunter up from that grim pool,
    And join my friends: then you'll come by,
    The Captain of our Company:
    Call me out, look me up and down,
    And pass me through without a frown,
    With half a smile, but never a word--
    And so I shall have met my Lord. 

He turned round as though he would go from the room.

Stumbling, he caught Foster by the shoulder as though he would save
himself.

He bent forward, staring into Foster's face.

"God is love, though," he said. "You betray Him again and again, but He comes back."

He gripped Foster's shoulder more tightly. "Don't do this thing, man,"
he said. "Don't do it. Because Ronder's beaten me is no reason for
you to betray your God.... Give me a chair. I'm ill."

He fell upon
his knees.

"This...Death," he whispered. What must come first is not our
need, whether as anxious or guilty, but God's need, or else our religion will be at the level
of natural religion and below the Christian level. It is because men are poor towards God and
think coldly and ungenerously of Him that they 'are not worrying about their sins.' Men are
not sorry for sin (except with the seedy remorse of 'the morning after') until their sin has
come into contact with love. The more vital a young man is, the less will he brood in self-regard
over his wrongdoing. "Anyhow, I have lived," he will say. But if it comes home to him what
his wrongdoing has done to another who loves him, then he begins to be sorry. "I didn't care,"
he will say, "for myself. I had my fling. But now I see that what I did has broken my mother's
heart. I wish to God I hadn't done it."

