The spectacle was over by the time we gained the top of the hill. All the gold had withered
out of the sky, and the balloon had disappeared.  Whither? I ask myself; caught up into the
seventh heaven? or come safely to land somewhere in that blue uneven distance, into which the
roadway dipped and melted before our eyes? Probably the aeronauts were already warming themselves
at a farm chimney, for they say it is cold in these unhomely regions of the air.  The night
fell swiftly.  Roadside trees and disappointed sightseers, returning through the meadows, stood
out in black against a margin of low red sunset.  It was cheerfuller to face the other way,
and so down the hill we went, with a full moon, the colour of a melon, swinging high above
the wooded valley, and the white cliffs behind us faintly reddened by the fire of the chalk kilns.

The lamps were lighted, and the salads were being made in Origny Sainte-Benoite by the river.

ORIGNY SAINTE-BENOITE

THE COMPANY AT TABLE

Although we came late for dinner, the company at table treated us to sparkling wine.  'That
is how we are in France,' said one. 'Those who sit down with us are our friends.' And the rest
applauded.

They were three altogether, and an odd trio to pass the Sunday with.

Two of them were guests like ourselves, both men of the north.  One ruddy, and of a full habit
of body, with copious black hair and beard, the intrepid hunter of France, who thought nothing
so small, not even a lark or a minnow, but he might vindicate his prowess by its capture. Then
the sister took the tail of a whale, and cooked it for the stranger to eat. But as it lay before
him, on the platter and on his knees, the elder brother entered, and saying rudely, "This is
too good for a beggar like you," took it away to his own wigwam. Then Glooskap spoke: "That which
was given to me was mine; therefore I take it again." And sitting still he simply wished for
it, and it came flying into the platter where it was before.

So he ate it.
Then the brothers said, "Indeed, he is a great magician.  We shall never again see Gaston in his forest costume--he was Gaston with all
the world, in affection, not in disrespect--nor hear him wake the echoes of Fontainebleau with
the woodland horn.  Never again shall his kind smile put peace among all races of artistic
men, and make the Englishman at home in France.  Never more shall the sheep, who were not more
innocent at heart than he, sit all unconsciously for his industrious pencil.  He died too early,
at the very moment when he was beginning to put forth fresh sprouts, and blossom into something
worthy of himself; and yet none who knew him will think he lived in vain.  I never knew a man
so little, for whom yet I had so much affection; and I find it a good test of others, how much
they had learned to understand and value him.  But now his mother sits alone by the side of
Fontainebleau woods, where he gathered mushrooms in his hardy and penurious youth.

Many of his pictures found their way across the Channel:  besides those which were stolen,
when a dastardly Yankee left him alone in London with two English pence, and perhaps twice
as many words of English.  If any one who reads these lines should have a scene of sheep, in
the manner of Jacques, with this fine creature's signature, let him tell himself that one of
the kindest and bravest of men has lent a hand to decorate his lodging.  There may be better
pictures in the National Gallery; but not a painter among the generations had a better heart.
Precious in the sight of the Lord of humanity, the Psalms tell us, is the death of his saints.
It had need to be precious; for it is very costly, when by the stroke, a mother is left desolate,
and the peace-maker, and peace- looker, of a whole society is laid in the ground with Caesar
and the Twelve Apostles.

There is something lacking among the oaks of Fontainebleau; and when the dessert comes in at
Barbizon, people look to the door for a figure that is gone.

The third of our companions at Origny was no less a person than the landlady's husband:  not
properly the landlord, since he worked himself in a factory during the day, and came to his
own house at evening as a guest:  a man worn to skin and bone by perpetual excitement, with
baldish head, sharp features, and swift, shining eyes. Now this was hard on the old lady. She
could not go out hunting, or set traps, or fish any more; and her partner, being mean, kept
all the nice morsels for herself. Mrs. Bear only got the leanest and poorest of the meat,
though there was plenty of the best.  His wife appeared now and again in the doorway of the room,
where she was superintending dinner, with a 'Henri, you forget yourself,' or a 'Henri, you
can surely talk without making such a noise.' Indeed, that was what the honest fellow could
not do.  On the most trifling matter his eyes kindled, his fist visited the table, and his
voice rolled abroad in changeful thunder.  I never saw such a petard of a man; I think the
devil was in him.  He had two favourite expressions:  'it is logical,' or illogical, as the
case might be:  and this other, thrown out with a certain bravado, as a man might unfurl a
banner, at the beginning of many a long and sonorous story:  'I am a proletarian, you see.'
Indeed, we saw it very well.  God forbid that ever I should find him handling a gun in Paris
streets!  That will not be a good moment for the general public.

I thought his two phrases very much represented the good and evil of his class, and to some
extent of his country.  It is a strong thing to say what one is, and not be ashamed of it;
even although it be in doubtful taste to repeat the statement too often in one evening.  I
should not admire it in a duke, of course; but as times go, the trait is honourable in a workman.
But France is all gone wandering after one or two big words; it will take some time before
they can be satisfied that they are no more than words, however big; and when once that is
done, they will perhaps find logic less diverting.

The conversation opened with details of the day's shooting.  When all the sportsmen of a village
shoot over the village territory pro indiviso, it is plain that many questions of etiquette
and priority must arise.

'Here now,' cried the landlord, brandishing a plate, 'here is a field of beet-root.  Well.
Here am I then.  I advance, do I not? Eh bien! sacristi,' and the statement, waxing louder,
rolls off into a reverberation of oaths, the speaker glaring about for sympathy, and everybody
nodding his head to him in the name of peace. 

But he liked the place no longer, and he and his went away therefrom, and scattered far and wide.

This strange story recalls the Undine of La Motte Fouque.

There is in it an element of mystery and destiny, equal in every
way to anything in German literature.

The family secret, touched on but never explained, which ends in such a death, is, speaking
from an artistic point of view, very skillfully managed. It must be borne in mind that in this,
as in most of these tales, there are associations and chords which
make as gold to an Indian that which is only copper, or at best silver,
to the civilized reader of my translations.

There is a characteristic feature of this story superior to anything in Undine. It is the growth
in the hero, when he knows the worst to come, of that will, or stoicism, or complete indifference
to fate, which the Indians regard as equivalent to attaining m'teoulin, or magic power. When
a man has in him such courage that nothing earthly can do more than
increase it, he has attained to what is in one sense at least Nirvana.

From an Algonquin point of view the plot is perfect.

I have given this story accurately as it was told to me by Tomah Josephs, a Passamaquoddy Indian.

How
one of the Partridge's Wives became a Sheldrake Duck, and why her Feet and Feathers are Red.

N'karnayoo,
of the old time, there was a hunter who lived in the woods.

He had a brother, [Footnote: The word brother is so generally applied in adoption or friendship
that it cannot here be taken in a literal sense. The brother in this case seems to have been a goblin
or spirit.] who was so small that he kept him in a box, and when he went forth he closed this
very carefully, for fear lest an evil spirit (Mitche-hant) should get him.

One day this hunter, returning, saw a very beautiful girl sitting on a rock by a river, making
a moccasin.

And being in a canoe he paddled up softly and silently to capture her; but she, seeing him coming,
jumped into the water and disappeared. On returning to her mother, who lived at the bottom of
the river, she was told to go back to the hunter and be his wife; "for now," said the mother,
"you belong to that man."

The hunter's name was Mitchihess, the Partridge. When she came to his lodge he was absent.
So she arranged everything for his return, making a bed of boughs. At night he came back with
one beaver. This he divided; cooked one half for supper and laid by the other half. In the morning
when she awoke he was gone, and the other half of the beaver had also disappeared. That night
he returned with another beaver, and the same thing took place again. Then she resolved to
spy and find out what all this meant.

So she laid down and went to sleep, wide awake, with one eye open.

Then he quietly rose and cooked the half of the beaver, and taking
a key (Apkwosgehegan, P.) unlocked a box, and took out a little red
dwarf and fed him. Replacing the elf, he locked him up again, and
lay down to sleep. And the small creature had eaten the whole half
beaver. But ere he put him in his box he washed him and combed his
hair, which seemed to delight him.

The next morning, when her husband
had gone for the day, the wife sought for the key, and having found
it opened the box and called to the little fellow to come out. Politics are the religion of France;
as Nanty Ewart would have said, 'A d-d bad religion'; while we, at home, keep most of our bitterness
for little differences about a hymn-book, or a Hebrew word which perhaps neither of the parties
can translate.  And perhaps the misconception is typical of many others that may never be cleared
up:  not only between people of different race, but between those of different sex.

As for our friend's martyrdom, he was a Communist, or perhaps only a Communard, which is a
very different thing; and had lost one or more situations in consequence.  I think he had also
been rejected in marriage; but perhaps he had a sentimental way of considering business which
deceived me.  He was a mild, gentle creature, anyway; and I hope he has got a better situation,
and married a more suitable wife since then.

DOWN THE OISE

TO MOY

Carnival notoriously cheated us at first.  Finding us easy in our ways, he regretted having
let us off so cheaply; and taking me aside, told me a cock-and-bull story with the moral of
another five francs for the narrator.  The thing was palpably absurd; but I paid up, and at
once dropped all friendliness of manner, and kept him in his place as an inferior with freezing
British dignity.  He saw in a moment that he had gone too far, and killed a willing horse;
his face fell; I am sure he would have refunded if he could only have thought of a decent pretext.
He wished me to drink with him, but I would none of his drinks.  He grew pathetically tender
in his professions; but I walked beside him in silence or answered him in stately courtesies;
and when we got to the landing-place, passed the word in English slang to the Cigarette.

In spite of the false scent we had thrown out the day before, there must have been fifty people
about the bridge.  We were as pleasant as we could be with all but Carnival.  We said good-bye,
shaking hands with the old gentleman who knew the river and the young gentleman who had a smattering
of English; but never a word for Carnival.  Poor Carnival! here was a humiliation.  He who
had been so much identified with the canoes, who had given orders in our name, who had shown
off the boats and even the boatmen like a private exhibition of his own, to be now so publicly
shamed by the lions of his caravan!  I never saw anybody look more crestfallen than he.  He
hung in the background, coming timidly forward ever and again as he thought he saw some symptom
of a relenting humour, and falling hurriedly back when he encountered a cold stare.  Let us
hope it will be a lesson to him.

I would not have mentioned Carnival's peccadillo had not the thing been so uncommon in France.
This, for instance, was the only case of dishonesty or even sharp practice in our whole voyage.
We talk very much about our honesty in England.  It is a good rule to be on your guard wherever
you hear great professions about a very little piece of virtue.  If the English could only
hear how they are spoken of abroad, they might confine themselves for a while to remedying
the fact; and perhaps even when that was done, give us fewer of their airs.

The young ladies, the graces of Origny, were not present at our start, but when we got round
to the second bridge, behold, it was black with sightseers!  We were loudly cheered, and for
a good way below, young lads and lasses ran along the bank still cheering. What with current
and paddling, we were flashing along like swallows.  It was no joke to keep up with us upon
the woody shore. But the girls picked up their skirts, as if they were sure they had good ankles,
and followed until their breath was out.  The last to weary were the three graces and a couple
of companions; and just as they too had had enough, the foremost of the three leaped upon a
tree-stump and kissed her hand to the canoeists.  Not Diana herself, although this was more
of a Venus after all, could have done a graceful thing more gracefully.  'Come back again!'
she cried; and all the others echoed her; and the hills about Origny repeated the words, 'Come
back.'  But the river had us round an angle in a twinkling, and we were alone with the green
trees and running water.

Come back?  There is no coming back, young ladies, on the impetuous stream of life.

'The merchant bows unto the seaman's star, The ploughman from the sun his season takes.'

And we must all set our pocket-watches by the clock of fate.  There is a headlong, forthright
tide, that bears away man with his fancies like a straw, and runs fast in time and space. 
It is full of curves like this, your winding river of the Oise; and lingers and returns in
pleasant pastorals; and yet, rightly thought upon, never returns at all.  For though it should
revisit the same acre of meadow in the same hour, it will have made an ample sweep between-whiles;
many little streams will have fallen in; many exhalations risen towards the sun; and even although
it were the same acre, it will no more be the same river of Oise.  And thus, O graces of Origny,
although the wandering fortune of my life should carry me back again to where you await death's
whistle by the river, that will not be the old I who walks the street; and those wives and
mothers, say, will those be you?

There was never any mistake about the Oise, as a matter of fact. In these upper reaches it
was still in a prodigious hurry for the sea.  It ran so fast and merrily, through all the windings
of its channel, that I strained my thumb, fighting with the rapids, and had to paddle all the
rest of the way with one hand turned up. Sometimes it had to serve mills; and being still a
little river, ran very dry and shallow in the meanwhile.  We had to put our legs out of the
boat, and shove ourselves off the sand of the bottom with our feet.  And still it went on its
way singing among the poplars, and making a green valley in the world.  After a good woman,
and a good book, and tobacco, there is nothing so agreeable on earth as a river.  I forgave
it its attempt on my life; which was after all one part owing to the unruly winds of heaven
that had blown down the tree, one part to my own mismanagement, and only a third part to the
river itself, and that not out of malice, but from its great preoccupation over its business
of getting to the sea.  A difficult business, too; for the detours it had to make are not to
be counted.  The geographers seem to have given up the attempt; for I found no map represent
the infinite contortion of its course.  A fact will say more than any of them.  After we had
been some hours, three if I mistake not, flitting by the trees at this smooth, break-neck gallop,
when we came upon a hamlet and asked where we were, we had got no farther than four kilometres
(say two miles and a half) from Origny.  If it were not for the honour of the thing (in the
Scots saying), we might almost as well have been standing still.

We lunched on a meadow inside a parallelogram of poplars.  The leaves danced and prattled in
the wind all round about us.  The river hurried on meanwhile, and seemed to chide at our delay.
Little we cared.  The river knew where it was going; not so we: the less our hurry, where we
found good quarters and a pleasant theatre for a pipe.  At that hour, stockbrokers were shouting
in Paris Bourse for two or three per cent.; but we minded them as little as the sliding stream,
and sacrificed a hecatomb of minutes to the gods of tobacco and digestion.  Hurry is the resource
of the faithless.  Where a man can trust his own heart, and those of his friends, to-morrow
is as good as to-day.  And if he die in the meanwhile, why then, there he dies, and the question
is solved.

We had to take to the canal in the course of the afternoon; because, where it crossed the river,
there was, not a bridge, but a siphon.  If it had not been for an excited fellow on the bank,
we should have paddled right into the siphon, and thenceforward not paddled any more.  We met
a man, a gentleman, on the tow-path, who was much interested in our cruise.  And I was witness
to a strange seizure of lying suffered by the Cigarette:  who, because his knife came from
Norway, narrated all sorts of adventures in that country, where he has never been.  He was
quite feverish at the end, and pleaded demoniacal possession.

Moy (pronounce Moy) was a pleasant little village, gathered round a chateau in a moat.  The
air was perfumed with hemp from neighbouring fields.  At the Golden Sheep we found excellent
entertainment.  German shells from the siege of La Fere, Nurnberg figures, gold-fish in a bowl,
and all manner of knick-knacks, embellished the public room.  The landlady was a stout, plain,
short-sighted, motherly body, with something not far short of a genius for cookery.  She had
a guess of her excellence herself. After every dish was sent in, she would come and look on
at the dinner for a while, with puckered, blinking eyes.  'C'est bon, n'est-ce pas?' she would
say; and when she had received a proper answer, she disappeared into the kitchen.  That common
French dish, partridge and cabbages, became a new thing in my eyes at the Golden Sheep; and
many subsequent dinners have bitterly disappointed me in consequence.  Sweet was our rest in
the Golden Sheep at Moy.

LA FERE OF CURSED MEMORY

We lingered in Moy a good part of the day, for we were fond of being philosophical, and scorned
long journeys and early starts on principle.  The place, moreover, invited to repose.  People
in elaborate shooting costumes sallied from the chateau with guns and game-bags; and this was
a pleasure in itself, to remain behind while these elegant pleasure-seekers took the first
of the morning. In this way, all the world may be an aristocrat, and play the duke among marquises,
and the reigning monarch among dukes, if he will only outvie them in tranquillity.

We made a very short day of it to La Fere; but the dusk was falling, and a small rain had begun
before we stowed the boats.  La Fere is a fortified town in a plain, and has two belts of rampart.
Between the first and the second extends a region of waste land and cultivated patches.  Here
and there along the wayside were posters forbidding trespass in the name of military engineering.
At last, a second gateway admitted us to the town itself.  Lighted windows looked gladsome,
whiffs of comfortable cookery came abroad upon the air.  The town was full of the military
reserve, out for the French Autumn Manoeuvres, and the reservists walked speedily and wore
their formidable great-coats.  It was a fine night to be within doors over dinner, and hear
the rain upon the windows.

The Cigarette and I could not sufficiently congratulate each other on the prospect, for we
had been told there was a capital inn at La Fere.  Such a dinner as we were going to eat! such
beds as we were to sleep in!--and all the while the rain raining on houseless folk over all
the poplared countryside!  The carriage entry was lighted up, not by intention, but from the
mere superfluity of fire and candle in the house.  A rattle of many dishes came to our ears;
we sighted a great field of table-cloth; the kitchen glowed like a forge and smelt like a garden
of things to eat.  'Sortez! sortez! sortez par la porte!'

I do not know how it happened, but next moment we were out in the rain and darkness, and I
was cursing before the carriage entry like a disappointed mendicant.  Where were the boating
men of Belgium? where the Judge and his good wines? and where the graces of Origny? Black,
black was the night after the firelit kitchen; but what was that to the blackness in our heart?
Try it; try it only once; and tell me what you did.

For my part, when I was turned out of the Stag, or the Hind, or whatever it was, I would have
set the temple of Diana on fire, if it had been handy.  There was no crime complete enough
to express my disapproval of human institutions.  As for the Cigarette, I never knew a man
so altered.  'We have been taken for pedlars again,' said he.  'Good God, what it must be to
be a pedlar in reality!'  He particularised a complaint for every joint in the landlady's body.
Timon was a philanthropist alongside of him.  And then, when he was at the top of his maledictory
bent, he would suddenly break away and begin whimperingly to commiserate the poor. 'I hope
to God,' he said,--and I trust the prayer was answered,-- 'that I shall never be uncivil to
a pedlar.'  Was this the imperturbable Cigarette?  This, this was he.  O change beyond report,
thought, or belief!

Meantime the heaven wept upon our heads; and the windows grew brighter as the night increased
in darkness.  We trudged in and out of La Fere streets; we saw shops, and private houses where
people were copiously dining; we saw stables where carters' nags had plenty of fodder and clean
straw; we saw no end of reservists, who were very sorry for themselves this wet night, I doubt
not, and yearned for their country homes; but had they not each man his place in La Fere barracks?
And we, what had we?

There seemed to be no other inn in the whole town.  People gave us directions, which we followed
as best we could, generally with the effect of bringing us out again upon the scene of our
disgrace.  We were very sad people indeed by the time we had gone all over La Fere; and the
Cigarette had already made up his mind to lie under a poplar and sup off a loaf of bread. 
But right at the other end, the house next the town-gate was full of light and bustle.  'Bazin,
aubergiste, loge a pied,' was the sign.  'A la Croix de Malte.' There were we received.

The room was full of noisy reservists drinking and smoking; and we were very glad indeed when
the drums and bugles began to go about the streets, and one and all had to snatch shakoes and
be off for the barracks.

Bazin was a tall man, running to fat:  soft-spoken, with a delicate, gentle face.  We asked
him to share our wine; but he excused himself, having pledged reservists all day long.  This
was a very different type of the workman-innkeeper from the bawling disputatious fellow at
Origny.  He also loved Paris, where he had worked as a decorative painter in his youth.  There
were such opportunities for self-instruction there, he said.  And if any one has read Zola's
description of the workman's marriage-party visiting the Louvre, they would do well to have
heard Bazin by way of antidote.  He had delighted in the museums in his youth.  'One sees there
little miracles of work,' he said; 'that is what makes a good workman; it kindles a spark.'
We asked him how he managed in La Fere.  'I am married,' he said, 'and I have my pretty children.
But frankly, it is no life at all.  From morning to night I pledge a pack of good enough fellows
who know nothing.'

It faired as the night went on, and the moon came out of the clouds.  We sat in front of the
door, talking softly with Bazin. At the guard-house opposite, the guard was being for ever
turned out, as trains of field artillery kept clanking in out of the night, or patrols of horsemen
trotted by in their cloaks.

DOWN THE OISE

THROUGH THE GOLDEN VALLEY

Below La Fere the river runs through a piece of open pastoral country; green, opulent, loved
by breeders; called the Golden Valley.  In wide sweeps, and with a swift and equable gallop,
the ceaseless stream of water visits and makes green the fields.  Kine, and horses, and little
humorous donkeys, browse together in the meadows, and come down in troops to the river-side
to drink.  They make a strange feature in the landscape; above all when they are startled,
and you see them galloping to and fro with their incongruous forms and faces.  It gives a feeling
as of great, unfenced pampas, and the herds of wandering nations.  There were hills in the
distance upon either hand; and on one side, the river sometimes bordered on the wooded spurs
of Coucy and St. Gobain.

The artillery were practising at La Fere; and soon the cannon of heaven joined in that loud
play.  Two continents of cloud met and exchanged salvos overhead; while all round the horizon
we could see sunshine and clear air upon the hills.  What with the guns and the thunder, the
herds were all frightened in the Golden Valley.  We could see them tossing their heads, and
running to and fro in timorous indecision; and when they had made up their minds, and the donkey
followed the horse, and the cow was after the donkey, we could hear their hooves thundering
abroad over the meadows.  It had a martial sound, like cavalry charges.  And altogether, as
far as the ears are concerned, we had a very rousing battle-piece performed for our amusement.

At last the guns and the thunder dropped off; the sun shone on the wet meadows; the air was
scented with the breath of rejoicing trees and grass; and the river kept unweariedly carrying
us on at its best pace.  There was a manufacturing district about Chauny; and after that the
banks grew so high that they hid the adjacent country, and we could see nothing but clay sides,
and one willow after another.  Only, here and there, we passed by a village or a ferry, and
some wondering child upon the bank would stare after us until we turned the corner.  I daresay
we continued to paddle in that child's dreams for many a night after.

Sun and shower alternated like day and night, making the hours longer by their variety.  When
the showers were heavy, I could feel each drop striking through my jersey to my warm skin;
and the accumulation of small shocks put me nearly beside myself.  I decided I should buy a
mackintosh at Noyon.  It is nothing to get wet; but the misery of these individual pricks of
cold all over my body at the same instant of time made me flail the water with my paddle like
a madman.  The Cigarette was greatly amused by these ebullitions.  It gave him something else
to look at besides clay banks and willows.

All the time, the river stole away like a thief in straight places, or swung round corners
with an eddy; the willows nodded, and were undermined all day long; the clay banks tumbled
in; the Oise, which had been so many centuries making the Golden Valley, seemed to have changed
its fancy, and be bent upon undoing its performance.  What a number of things a river does,
by simply following Gravity in the innocence of its heart!

NOYON CATHEDRAL

Noyon stands about a mile from the river, in a little plain surrounded by wooded hills, and
entirely covers an eminence with its tile roofs, surmounted by a long, straight-backed cathedral
with two stiff towers.  As we got into the town, the tile roofs seemed to tumble uphill one
upon another, in the oddest disorder; but for all their scrambling, they did not attain above
the knees of the cathedral, which stood, upright and solemn, over all.  As the streets drew
near to this presiding genius, through the market- place under the Hotel de Ville, they grew
emptier and more composed.  Blank walls and shuttered windows were turned to the great edifice,
and grass grew on the white causeway.  I have seldom looked on the east-end of a church with
more complete sympathy.  As it flanges out in three wide terraces and settles down broadly
on the earth, it looks like the poop of some great old battle-ship.  Hollow-backed buttresses
carry vases, which figure for the stern lanterns.  There is a roll in the ground, and the towers
just appear above the pitch of the roof, as though the good ship were bowing lazily over an
Atlantic swell.  At any moment it might be a hundred feet away from you, climbing the next
billow.  At any moment a window might open, and some old admiral thrust forth a cocked hat,
and proceed to take an observation.  The old admirals sail the sea no longer; the old ships
of battle are all broken up, and live only in pictures; but this, that was a church before
ever they were thought upon, is still a church, and makes as brave an appearance by the Oise. He
became sick; he grew pale. He cast up all the horrors and abominations of earth, things appalling
to every sense.

When all was over he seemed changed. [Footnote: The Chenoo is not only a cannibal, but a ghoul.
He preys on nameless horrors.  From above, the town was a tesselated pavement of roofs and gardens; the old
line of rampart was plainly traceable; and the Sacristan pointed out to us, far across the
plain, in a bit of gleaming sky between two clouds, the towers of Chateau Coucy.

