One of those little things almost too good to be true happened at the close of the Drury Lane
matinée. A four-wheeler was hailed for me by the stage-door keeper, and my daughter and I drove
off to Lady Bancroft's in Berkeley Square to leave some flowers. Outside the house, the cabman
told my daughter that in old days he had often driven Charles Kean from the Princess's Theater,
and that sometimes the little Miss Terrys were put inside the cab too and given a lift! My
daughter thought it such an extraordinary coincidence that the old man should have come to
the stage-door of Drury Lane by a mere chance on my jubilee day that she took his address,
and I was to send him a photograph and remuneration. But I promptly lost the address, and was
never able to trace the old man.

APOLOGIA

I have now nearly finished the history of my fifty years upon the stage.

A good deal has been left out through want of skill in selection. Some things have been included
which perhaps it would have been wiser to omit.

I have tried my best to tell "all things faithfully," and it is possible that I have given
offense where offense was not dreamed of; that some people will think that I should not have
said this, while others, approving of "this," will be quite certain that I ought not to have
said "that."

     "One said it thundered ... another that an angel spake."

It's the point of view, for I have "set down naught in malice."

During my struggles with my refractory, fragmentary, and unsatisfactory memories, I have realized
that life itself is a point of view: is, to put it more clearly, imagination.

So if any one said to me at this point in my story: "And is this, then, what you call your
life?" I should not resent the question one little bit.

"We have heard," continues my imaginary and disappointed interlocutor, "a great deal about
your life in the theater. You have told us of plays and parts and rehearsals, of actors good
and bad, of critics and of playwrights, of success and failure, but after all, your whole life
has not been lived in the theater. Have you nothing to tell us about your different homes,
your family life, your social diversions, your friends and acquaintances? During your life
there have been great changes in manners and customs; political parties have altered; a great
Queen has died; your country has been engaged in two or three serious wars. Did all these things
make no impression on you? Can you tell us nothing of your life in the world?"

And I have to answer that I have lived very little in the world. After all, the life of an
actress belongs to the theater as the life of a soldier belongs to the army, the life of a
politician to the State, and the life of a woman of fashion to society.

Certainly I have had many friends outside the theater, but I have had very little time to see them.

I have had many homes, but I have had very little time to live in them!

When I am not acting, the best part of my time is taken up by the most humdrum occupations.
Dealing with my correspondence, even with the help of a secretary, is no insignificant work.
The letters, chiefly consisting of requests for my autograph, or appeals to my charity, have
to be answered. I have often been advised to ignore them--surely a course that would be both
bad policy and bad taste on the part of a servant of the public. It would be unkind, too, to
those ignorant of my busy life and the calls upon my time.

Still, I sometimes wish that the cost of a postage stamp were a sovereign at least!

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1887, the year of Queen Victoria's Jubilee, I find that I wrote in my diary:--"I am not
yet forty, but am pretty well worn out."

It is twenty years since then, and I am still not worn out. Wonderful!

THE DEATH OF HENRY IRVING

It is commonly known, I think, that Henry Irving's health first began to fail in 1896.

He went home to Grafton Street after the first night of the revival of "Richard III." and slipped
on the stairs, injuring his knee. With characteristic fortitude, he struggled to his feet unassisted
and walked to his room. This made the consequences of the accident far more serious, and he
was not able to act for weeks.

It was a bad year at the Lyceum.

In 1898 when we were on tour he caught a chill. Inflammation of the lungs, bronchitis, pneumonia
followed. His heart was affected. He was never really well again.

When I think of his work during the next seven years, I could weep! Never was there a more
admirable, extraordinary worker; never was any one more splendid-couraged and patient.

The seriousness of his illness in 1898 was never really known. He nearly died.

     "I am still fearfully anxious about H.," I wrote to my daughter at
     the time. "It will be a long time at the best before he gains
     strength.... But now I do hope for the best. I'm fairly well so
     far. All he wants is for me to keep my health, not my head. He
     knows I'm doing that! Last night I did three acts of 'Sans-Gêne'
     and 'Nance Oldfield' thrown in! That is a bit too much--awful
     work--and I can't risk it again."

     "A telegram just come: 'Steadily improving....' You should have
     seen Norman[1] as Shylock! It was not a bare 'get-through.' It
     was--the first night--an admirable performance, as well as a plucky
     one.... H. is more seriously ill than anyone dreams.... His look!
     Like the last act of Louis XI."

[Footnote 1: Mr. Norman Forbes-Robertson.]

In 1902, on the last provincial tour that we ever went together, he was ill again, but he did
not give in. One night when his cough was rending him, and he could hardly stand up from weakness,
he acted so brilliantly and strongly that it was easy to believe in the triumph of mind over
matter--in Christian Science, in fact!

Strange to say, a newspaper man noticed the splendid power of his performance that night and
wrote of it with uncommon discernment--a provincial critic, by the way.

In London at the time they were always urging Henry Irving to produce new plays by new playwrights.
But in the face of the failure of most of the new work, and of his departing strength, and
of the extraordinary support given him in the old plays (during this 1902 tour we took £4,000
at Glasgow in one week!), Henry took the wiser course in doing nothing but the old plays to
the end of the chapter.

I realized how near, not only the end of the chapter but the end of the book was, when he was
taken ill at Wolverhampton in the spring of 1905.

We had not acted together for more than two years then, and times were changed indeed.

I went down to Wolverhampton when the news of his illness reached London. I arrived late and
went to an hotel. It was not a good hotel, nor could I find a very good florist when I got
up early the next day and went out with the intention of buying Henry some flowers. I wanted
some bright-colored ones for him--he had always liked bright flowers--and this florist dealt
chiefly in white flowers--funeral flowers.

At last I found some daffodils--my favorite flower. I bought a bunch, and the kind florist,
whose heart was in the right place if his flowers were not, found me a nice simple glass to
put it in. I knew the sort of vase that I should find at Henry's hotel.

I remembered, on my way to the doctor's--for I had decided to see the doctor first--that in
1892 when my dear mother died, and I did not act for a few nights, when I came back I found
my room at the Lyceum filled with daffodils. "To make it look like sunshine," Henry said.

The doctor talked to me quite frankly.

"His heart is dangerously weak," he said.

"Have you told him?" I asked.

"I had to, because the heart being in that condition he must be careful."

"Did he understand really?"

"Oh, yes. He said he quite understood."

Yet a few minutes later when I saw Henry, and begged him to remember what the doctor had said
about his heart, he exclaimed: "Fiddle! It's not my heart at all! It's my breath!" (Oh the
ignorance of great men about themselves!)

"I also told him," the Wolverhampton doctor went on, "that he must not work so hard in future."

I said: "He will, though,--and he's stronger than any one."

Then I went round to the hotel.

I found him sitting up in bed, drinking his coffee.

He looked like some beautiful gray tree that I have seen in Savannah. His old dressing-gown
hung about his frail yet majestic figure like some mysterious gray drapery.

We were both very much moved, and said little.

"I'm glad you've come. Two Queens have been kind to me this morning. Queen Alexandra telegraphed
to say how sorry she was I was ill, and now you--"

He showed me the Queen's gracious message.

I told him he looked thin and ill, but rested.

"Rested! I should think so. I have plenty of time to rest. They tell me I shall be here eight
weeks. Of course I sha'n't, but still--It was that rug in front of the door. I tripped over
it. A commercial traveler picked me up--a kind fellow, but d--n him, he wouldn't leave me afterwards--wanted
to talk to me all night."

I remembered his having said this, when I was told by his servant, Walter Collinson, that on
the night of his death at Bradford, he stumbled over the rug when he walked into the hotel
corridor.

We fell to talking about work. He said he hoped that I had a good manager ... agreed very heartily
with me about Frohman, saying he was always so fair--more than fair.

"What a wonderful life you've had, haven't you?" I exclaimed, thinking of it all in a flash.

"Oh, yes," he said quietly ... "a wonderful life--of work."

"And there's nothing better, after all, is there?"

"Nothing."

"What have you got out of it all.... You and I are 'getting on,' as they say. Do you ever think,
as I do sometimes, what you have got out of life?"

"What have I got out of it?" said Henry, stroking his chin and smiling slightly. "Let me see....
Well, a good cigar, a good glass of wine--good friends." Here he kissed my hand with courtesy.
Always he was so courteous; always his actions, like this little one of kissing my hand, were
so beautifully timed. They came just before the spoken words, and gave them peculiar value.

"That's not a bad summing-up of it all," I said. "And the end.... How would you like that to come?"

"How would I like that to come?" He repeated my question lightly yet meditatively too. Then
he was silent for some thirty seconds before he snapped his fingers--the action again before
the words.

"Like that!"

I thought of the definition of inspiration--"A calculation rapidly made." Perhaps he had never
thought of the manner of his death before. Now he had an inspiration as to how it would come.

We were silent a long time, I thinking how like some splendid Doge of Venice he looked, sitting
up in bed, his beautiful mobile hand stroking his chin.

I agreed, when I could speak, that to be snuffed out like a candle would save a lot of trouble.

After Henry Irving's sudden death in October of the same year, some of his friends protested
against the statement that it was the kind of death that he desired--that they knew, on the
contrary, that he thought sudden death inexpressibly sad.

I can only say what he told me.

I stayed with him about three hours at Wolverhampton. Before I left I went back to see the
doctor again--a very nice man by the way, and clever.

He told me that Henry ought never to play "The Bells" again, even if he acted again, which
he said ought not to be.

It was clever of the doctor to see what a terrible emotional strain "The Bells" put upon Henry--how
he never could play the part of Matthias with ease as he could Louis XI., for example.

Every time he heard the sound of the bells, the throbbing of his heart must have nearly killed
him. He used always to turn quite white--there was no trick about it. It was imagination acting
physically on the body.

His death as Matthias--the death of a strong, robust man--was different from all his other
stage deaths. He did really almost die--he imagined death with such horrible intensity. His
eyes would disappear upwards, his face grow gray, his limbs cold.

No wonder, then, that the first time that the Wolverhampton doctor's warning was disregarded,
and Henry played "The Bells" at Bradford, his heart could not stand the strain. Within twenty-four
hours of his last death as Matthias, he was dead.

What a heroic thing was that last performance of Becket which came between! I am told by those
who were in the company at the time that he was obviously suffering and dazed, this last night
of life. But he went through it all as usual. The courteous little speech to the audience,
the signing of a worrying boy's drawing at the stage-door--all that he had done for years,
he did faithfully for the last time.

Yes, I know it seems sad to the ordinary mind that he should have died in the entrance to an
hotel in a country-town with no friend, no relation near him. Only his faithful and devoted
servant Walter Collinson (whom, as was not his usual custom, he had asked to drive back to
the hotel with him that night) was there. Do I not feel the tragedy of the beautiful body,
for so many years the house of a thousand souls, being laid out in death by hands faithful
and devoted enough, but not the hands of his kindred either in blood or in sympathy!

I do feel it, yet I know it was more appropriate to such a man than the deathbed where friends
and relations weep.

Henry Irving belonged to England, not to a family. England showed that she knew it when she
buried him in Westminster Abbey.

Years before I had discussed, half in joke, the possibility of this honor. I remember his saying
to me with great simplicity, when I asked him what he expected of the public after his death:
"I should like them to do their duty by me. And they will--they will!"

There was not a touch of arrogance in this, just as I hope there was no touch of heartlessness
in me because my chief thought during the funeral in Westminster Abbey was: "How Henry would
have liked it!" The right note was struck, as I think was not the case at Tennyson's funeral
thirteen years earlier.

     "Tennyson is buried to-day in Westminster Abbey," I wrote in my
     diary, October 12, 1892. "His majestic life and death spoke of him
     better than the service.... The music was poor and dull and weak,
     while he was strong. The triumphant should have been the
     sentiment expressed.... Faces one knew everywhere. Lord Salisbury
     looked fine. His massive head and sad eyes were remarkable. No face
     there, however, looked anything by the side of Henry's.... He
     looked very pale and slim and wonderful!"

How terribly I missed that face at Henry's own funeral! I kept on expecting to see it, for
indeed it seemed to me that he was directing the whole most moving and impressive ceremony.
I could almost hear him saying, "Get on! get on!" in the parts of the service that dragged.
When the sun--such a splendid, tawny sun--burst across the solemn misty gray of the Abbey,
at the very moment when the coffin, under its superb pall of laurel leaves,[1] was carried
up the choir, I felt that it was an effect which he would have loved. 

And I gave one-and-ninepence for the beastly thing, too!

Young Man of the Period (meeting a female acquaintance attired in
ferns, rock-work, and coloured shells, illuminated by portable electric
light).

Hul-lo! You are a swell! And what are you supposed to be?

The Lady in Rock-work. Can't you see? I'm a Fairy Grotto. Good idea, isn't it?

He. Rippin'! But what the mischief have you got on your shoulder?

She. Oh, that's an aquarium--real goldfish. See!

[Exhibiting them
with pride.

He. Ain't you lettin' 'em sit up rather late? They will
be chippy to-morrow--off colour, don't you know.

She. Will they?
What ought I to do for them, then?

He. Do? Oh, just put a brandy-and-soda
in their tank. The petition for the burial presented to the Dean and Chapter, and signed, on the initiative
of Henry Irving's leading fellow-actors, by representative personages of influence, succeeded
only because of Henry's unique position.

"We worked very hard to get it done," I heard said--more than once. And I often longed to answer:
"Yes, and all honor to your efforts, but you worked for it between Henry's death and his funeral.
He worked for it all his life!"

I have always desired some other memorial to Henry Irving than his honored grave, not so much
for his sake as for the sake of those who loved him and would gladly welcome the opportunity
of some great test of their devotion.

Henry Irving's profession decided last year, after much belated discussion, to put up a statue
to him in the streets of London. I believe that it is to take the form of a portrait statue
in academic robes. A statue can never at any time be a very happy memorial to an actor, who
does not do his work in his own person, but through his imagination of many different persons.
If statue it had to be, the work should have had a symbolic character. My dear friend Alfred
Gilbert, one of the most gifted sculptors of this or any age, expressed a similar opinion to
the committee of the memorial, and later on wrote to me as follows:

     "I should never have attempted the representation of Irving as a
     mummer, nor literally as Irving disguised as this one or that one,
     but as Irving--the artistic exponent of other great artists'
     conceptions--Irving, the greatest illustrator of the greatest
     men's creations--he himself being a creator.

     "I had no idea of making use of Irving's facial and physical
     peculiarities as a means to perpetuate his life's work. The spirit
     of this work was worship of an ideal, and it was no fault of his
     that his strong personality dominated the honest conviction of his
     critics. These judged Irving as the man masquerading, not as the
     Artist interpreting, for the single reason that they were
     themselves overcome by the magic personality of a man above their
     comprehension.

     "I am convinced that Irving, when playing the rôle of whatever
     character he undertook to represent, lived in that character, and
     not as the actor playing the part for the applause of those in
     front--Charles I. was a masterpiece of conception as to the
     representation of a great gentleman. His Cardinal Wolsey was the
     most perfect presentation of greatness, of self-abnegation, and of
     power to suffer I can realize.... Jingle and Matthias were in
     Comedy and Tragedy combined, masterpieces of histrionic art. I
     could write volumes upon Irving as an actor, but to write of him as
     a man, and as a very great Artist, I should require more time
     than is still allotted to me of man's brief span of life and far,
     far more power than that which was given to those who wrote of him
     in a hurry during his lifetime.... Do you wonder, then, that I
     should rather elect to regard Irving in the abstract, when called
     upon to suggest a fitting monument, than to promise a faithful
     portrait?... Let us be grateful, however, that a great artist is to
     be commemorated at all, side by side with the effigies of great
     Butchers of mankind, and ephemeral statesmen, the instigators of
     useless bloodshed...."

ALFRED GILBERT AND OTHERS

Alfred Gilbert was one of Henry's sincere admirers in the old Lyceum days, and now if you want
to hear any one talk of those days brilliantly, delightfully, and whimsically, if you want
to live first nights and Beefsteak Room suppers over again--if you want to have Henry Irving
at the Garrick Club recreated before your eyes, it is only Alfred Gilbert who can do it for you!

He lives now in Bruges, that beautiful dead city of canals and Hans Memlings, and when I was
there a few years ago I saw him. I shall never forget his welcome! I let him know of my arrival,
and within a few hours he sent a carriage to my hotel to bring me to his house. The seats of
the fiacre were hidden by flowers! He had not long been in his house, and there were packing-cases
still lying about in the spacious, desolate rooms looking into an old walled garden. But on
the wall of the room in which we dined was a sketch by Raffaele, and the dinner, chiefly cooked
by Mr. Gilbert himself,--the Savoy at its best!

Some people regret that he has "buried" himself in Bruges, and that England has practically
lost her best sculptor. I think that he will do some of the finest work of his life there,
and meanwhile England should be proud of Alfred Gilbert.

In a city which can boast of some of the ugliest and weakest statues in the world, he has,
in the fountain erected to the memory of the good Lord Shaftesbury in Piccadilly Circus, created
a thing of beauty which will be a joy to future generations of Londoners.

The other day Mr. Frampton, one of the leaders of the younger school of English sculptors,
said of the Gilbert fountain that it could hold its own with the finest work of the same kind
done by the masters of the past. "They tell me," he said, "that it is inappropriate to its
surroundings. It is. That's the fault of the surroundings. In a more enlightened age than this,
Piccadilly Circus will be destroyed and rebuilt merely as a setting for Gilbert's jewel."

"The name of Gilbert is honored in this house," went on Mr. Frampton. We were at the time looking
at Henry Irving's death-mask which Mr. Frampton had taken, and a replica of which he had just
given me. I thought of Henry's living face, alive with raffish humor and mischief, presiding
at a supper in the Beefsteak Room--and of Alfred Gilbert's Beethoven-like head with its splendid
lion-like mane of tawny hair. Those days were dead indeed.

Now it seems to me that I did not appreciate them half enough--that I did not observe enough.
Yet players should observe, if only for their work's sake. The trouble is that only certain
types of men and women--the expressive types which are useful to us--appeal to our observation.

I remember one supper very well at which Bastien-Lepage was present, and "Miss Sarah" too.
The artist was lost in admiration of Henry's face, and expressed a strong desire to paint him.
The Bastien-Lepage portrait originated that evening, and is certainly a Beefsteak Room portrait,
although Henry gave two sittings for it afterwards at Grafton Street. At the supper itself
Bastien-Lepage drew on a half-sheet of paper for me two little sketches, one of Sarah Bernhardt
and the other of Henry, which are among my most precious relics.

My portrait as Lady Macbeth by Sargent used to hang in the alcove in the Beefsteak Room when
it was not away at some exhibition, and the artist and I have often supped under it--to me
no infliction, for I have always loved the picture, and think it is far more like me than any
other. Mr. Sargent first of all thought that he would paint me at the moment when Lady Macbeth
comes out of the castle to welcome Duncan. He liked the swirl of the dress, and the torches
and the women bowing down on either side. He used to make me walk up and down his studio until
I nearly dropped in my heavy dress, saying suddenly as I got the swirl:--"That's it, that's
it!" and rushing off to his canvas to throw on some paint in his wonderful inimitable fashion!

But he had to give up that idea of the Lady Macbeth picture all the same. I was the gainer,
for he gave me the unfinished sketch, and it is certainly very beautiful.

By this sketch hangs a tale of Mr. Sargent's great-heartedness. When the details of my jubilee
performance at Drury Lane were being arranged, the Committee decided to ask certain distinguished
artists to contribute to the programme. They were all delighted about it, and such busy men
as Sir Laurence Alma-Tadema, Mr. Abbey, Mr. Byam Shaw, Mr. Walter Crane, Mr. Bernard Partridge,
Mr. James Pryde, Mr. Orpen, and Mr. William Nicholson all gave some of their work to me. Mr.
Sargent was asked if he would allow the first Lady Macbeth study to be reproduced. He found
that it would not reproduce well, so in the height of the season and of his work with fashionable
sitters, he did an entirely new painting of the same subject, which would reproduce! This act
of kind friendship I could never forget even if the picture were not in front of me at this
minute to remind me of it. "You must think of me as one of the people bowing down to you in
the picture," he wrote to me when he sent the new version for the programme. Nothing during
my jubilee celebrations touched me more than this wonderful kindness of Mr. Sargent's.

Burne-Jones would have done something for my jubilee programme too, I think, had he lived.
He was one of my kindest friends, and his letters--he was a heaven-born letter-writer--were
like no one else's; full of charm and humor and feeling. Once when I was starting for a long
tour in America he sent me a picture with this particularly charming letter:

"THE GRANGE, "July 14, 1897.

"My dear Miss Terry,--

"I never have the courage to throw you a huge bouquet as I should like to--so in default I
send you a little sign of my homage and admiration. I made it purposely for you, which is its
only excellence, and thought nothing but gold good enough to paint with for you--and now it's
done, I am woefully disappointed. It looks such a poor wretch of a thing, and there is no time
to make another before you go, so look mercifully upon it--it did mean so well--as you would
upon a foolish friend, not holding it up to the light, but putting it in a corner and never
showing it.

"As to what it is about, I think it's a little scene in Heaven (I am always pretending to know
so much about that place!), a sort of patrol going to look to the battlements, some such thought
as in Marlowe's lovely line: 'Now walk the angels on the walls of Heaven.' But I wanted it
to be so different, and my old eyes cannot help me to finish it as I want--so forgive it and
accept it with all its accompanying crowd of good wishes to you. They were always in my mind
as I did it.

"And come back soon from that America and stay here, and never go away again. Indeed I do wish
you boundless happiness, and for our sake, such a length of life that you might shudder if
I were to say how long.

"Ever your poor artist,

"E.B.-J.

"If it is so faint that you can scarcely see it, let that stand for modest humility and shyness--as
I had only dared to whisper."

Another time, when I had sent him a trifle for some charity, he wrote:

"Dear Lady,--

"This morning came the delightful crinkly paper that always means you! The Parcels Post (feebly).
Don't you be too sharp. And it really is a first-rate idea.

All these parcels now--I suppose there must be fifty of 'em at least--
The Blue Domino. Are there? Well, I wish you'd go and get sorted
somewhere else. There is but one thing to do--to help with
a little money if you can manage it, and then try hard to forget. Yes, I am certain that I
should never paint again if I saw much of those hopeless lives that have no remedy. I know
of such a dear lad about my Phil's age who has felt this so sharply that he has given his happy,
lucky, petted life to give himself wholly to share their squalor and unlovely lives--doing
all he can, of evenings when his work is over, to amuse such as have the heart to be amused,
reading to them and telling them about histories and what not--anything he knows that can entertain
them. And this he has daily done for about a year, and if he carries it on for his life time
he shall have such a nimbus that he will look top-heavy with it.

"No, you would always have been lovely and made some beauty about you if you had been born
there--but I should have got drunk and beaten my family and been altogether horrible! When
everything goes just as I like, and painting prospers a bit, and the air is warm and friends
well and everything perfectly comfortable, I can just manage to behave decently, and a spoilt
fool I am--that's the truth. But wherever you were, some garden would grow.

"Yes, I know Winchelsea and Rye and Lynn and Hythe--all bonny places, and Hythe has a church
it may be proud of. Under the sea is another Winchelsea, a poor drowned city--about a mile
out at sea, I think, always marked in old maps as 'Winchelsea Dround.' If ever the sea goes
back on that changing coast there may be great fun when the spires and towers come up again.
It's a pretty land to drive in.

"I am growing downright stupid--I can't work at all, nor think of anything. Will my wits ever
come back to me?

"And when are you coming back--when will the Lyceum be in its rightful hands again? I refuse
to go there till you come back...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Dear Lady,--

"I have finished four pictures: come and tell me if they will do. I have worked so long at
them that I know nothing about them, but I want you to see them--and like them if you can.

"All Saturday and Sunday and Monday they are visible. Come any time you can that suits you
best--only come.

"I do hope you will like them. If you don't you must really pretend to, else I shall be heartbroken.
And if I knew what time you would come and which day, I would get Margaret here.

"I have had them about four years--long before I knew you, and now they are done and I can
hardly believe it. But tell me pretty pacifying lies and say you like them, even if you find
them rubbish.

"Your devoted and affectionate

"E.B.-J."

I went the next day to see the pictures with Edy. It was the "Briar Rose" series. They were
beautiful. The lovely Lady Granby (now Duchess of Rutland) was there--reminding me, as always,
of the reflection of something in water on a misty day. When she was Miss Violet Lindsay she
did a drawing of me as Portia in the doctor's robes, which is I think very like me, as well
as having all the charming qualities of her well-known pencil portraits.

The artists all loved the Lyceum, not only the old school, but the young ones, who could have
been excused for thinking that Henry Irving and I were a couple of old fogeys! William Nicholson
and James Pryde, who began by working together as "The Beggarstaff Brothers," and in this period
did a poster of Henry for "Don Quixote" and another for "Becket," were as enthusiastic about
the Lyceum as Burne-Jones had been. Mr. Pryde has done an admirable portrait of me as Nance
Oldfield, and his "Irving as Dubosc" shows the most extraordinary insight.

"I have really tried to draw his personality" he wrote to me thanking me for having said I
liked the picture (it was done after Henry's death).... "Irving's eyes in Dubosc always made
my hair stand on end, and I paid great attention to the fact that one couldn't exactly say
whether they were shut or open. Very terrifying...."

