THE TALISMAN

By Sir Walter Scott

INTRODUCTION TO THE TALISMAN.

The "Betrothed" did not greatly please one or two friends, who thought that it did not well
correspond to the general title of "The Crusaders." They urged, therefore, that, without direct
allusion to the manners of the Eastern tribes, and to the romantic conflicts of the period,
the title of a "Tale of the Crusaders" would resemble the playbill, which is said to have announced
the tragedy of Hamlet, the character of the Prince of Denmark being left out. On the other
hand, I felt the difficulty of giving a vivid picture of a part of the world with which I was
almost totally unacquainted, unless by early recollections of the Arabian Nights' Entertainments;
and not only did I labour under the incapacity of ignorance--in which, as far as regards Eastern
manners, I was as thickly wrapped as an Egyptian in his fog--but my contemporaries were, many
of them, as much enlightened upon the subject as if they had been inhabitants of the favoured
land of Goshen. The love of travelling had pervaded all ranks, and carried the subjects of
Britain into all quarters of the world. Greece, so attractive by its remains of art, by its
struggles for freedom against a Mohammedan tyrant, by its very name, where every fountain had
its classical legend--Palestine, endeared to the imagination by yet more sacred remembrances--had
been of late surveyed by British eyes, and described by recent travellers. Had I, therefore,
attempted the difficult task of substituting manners of my own invention, instead of the genuine
costume of the East, almost every traveller I met who had extended his route beyond what was
anciently called "The Grand Tour," had acquired a right, by ocular inspection, to chastise
me for my presumption. Every member of the Travellers' Club who could pretend to have thrown
his shoe over Edom was, by having done so, constituted my lawful critic and corrector. It occurred,
therefore, that where the author of Anastasius, as well as he of Hadji Baba, had described
the manners and vices of the Eastern nations, not only with fidelity, but with the humour of
Le Sage and the ludicrous power of Fielding himself, one who was a perfect stranger to the
subject must necessarily produce an unfavourable contrast. Oh, Aunt Bell--what a slump in my faith that
day! I think its foundations all went, and then naturally the rest of it just seemed to topple.
Did you realise it all the time?"

So it was religious doubt--a loss of faith--heterodoxy? Having listened until she gathered this
much, Aunt Bell broke in--"My dear, you must let me guide you in
this. You know what I've been through. Study the higher criticism,
reverently, if you will--even broaden into the higher unbelief. In a word,
the Eastern themes had been already so successfully handled by those who were acknowledged
to be masters of their craft, that I was diffident of making the attempt.

These were powerful objections; nor did they lose force when they became the subject of anxious
reflection, although they did not finally prevail. The arguments on the other side were, that
though I had no hope of rivalling the contemporaries whom I have mentioned, yet it occurred
to me as possible to acquit myself of the task I was engaged in without entering into competition
with them.

The period relating more immediately to the Crusades which I at last fixed upon was that at
which the warlike character of Richard I., wild and generous, a pattern of chivalry, with all
its extravagant virtues, and its no less absurd errors, was opposed to that of Saladin, in
which the Christian and English monarch showed all the cruelty and violence of an Eastern sultan,
and Saladin, on the other hand, displayed the deep policy and prudence of a European sovereign,
whilst each contended which should excel the other in the knightly qualities of bravery and
generosity. This singular contrast afforded, as the author conceived, materials for a work
of fiction possessing peculiar interest. One of the inferior characters introduced was a supposed
relation of Richard Coeur de Lion--a violation of the truth of history which gave offence to
Mr. Mills, the author of the "History of Chivalry and the Crusades," who was not, it may be
presumed, aware that romantic fiction naturally includes the power of such invention, which
is indeed one of the requisites of the art.

Prince David of Scotland, who was actually in the host, and was the hero of some very romantic
adventures on his way home, was also pressed into my service, and constitutes one of my DRAMATIS
PERSONAE.

It is true I had already brought upon the field him of the lion heart. But it was in a more
private capacity than he was here to be exhibited in the Talisman--then as a disguised knight,
now in the avowed character of a conquering monarch; so that I doubted not a name so dear to
Englishmen as that of King Richard I. might contribute to their amusement for more than once.

I had access to all which antiquity believed, whether of reality or fable, on the subject of
that magnificent warrior, who was the proudest boast of Europe and their chivalry, and with
whose dreadful name the Saracens, according to a historian of their own country, were wont
to rebuke their startled horses. "Do you think," said they, "that King Richard is on the track,
that you stray so wildly from it?" The most curious register of the history of King Richard
is an ancient romance, translated originally from the Norman; and at first certainly having
a pretence to be termed a work of chivalry, but latterly becoming stuffed with the most astonishing
and monstrous fables. There is perhaps no metrical romance upon record where, along with curious
and genuine history, are mingled more absurd and exaggerated incidents. We have placed in the
Appendix to this Introduction the passage of the romance in which Richard figures as an ogre,
or literal cannibal.

A principal incident in the story is that from which the title is derived. Of all people who
ever lived, the Persians were perhaps most remarkable for their unshaken credulity in amulets,
spells, periapts, and similar charms, framed, it was said, under the influence of particular
planets, and bestowing high medical powers, as well as the means of advancing men's fortunes
in various manners. A story of this kind, relating to a Crusader of eminence, is often told
in the west of Scotland, and the relic alluded to is still in existence, and even yet held
in veneration.

Sir Simon Lockhart of Lee and Gartland made a considerable figure in the reigns of Robert the
Bruce and of his son David. He was one of the chief of that band of Scottish chivalry who accompanied
James, the Good Lord Douglas, on his expedition to the Holy Land with the heart of King Robert
Bruce. Douglas, impatient to get at the Saracens, entered into war with those of Spain, and
was killed there. Lockhart proceeded to the Holy Land with such Scottish knights as had escaped
the fate of their leader and assisted for some time in the wars against the Saracens.

The following adventure is said by tradition to have befallen him:--

He made prisoner in battle an Emir of considerable wealth and consequence. The aged mother
of the captive came to the Christian camp, to redeem her son from his state of captivity. Lockhart
is said to have fixed the price at which his prisoner should ransom himself; and the lady,
pulling out a large embroidered purse, proceeded to tell down the ransom, like a mother who
pays little respect to gold in comparison of her son's liberty. In this operation, a pebble
inserted in a coin, some say of the Lower Empire, fell out of the purse, and the Saracen matron
testified so much haste to recover it as gave the Scottish knight a high idea of its value,
when compared with gold or silver. "I will not consent," he said, "to grant your son's liberty,
unless that amulet be added to his ransom." The lady not only consented to this, but explained
to Sir Simon Lockhart the mode in which the talisman was to be used, and the uses to which
it might be put. The water in which it was dipped operated as a styptic, as a febrifuge, and
possessed other properties as a medical talisman.

Sir Simon Lockhart, after much experience of the wonders which it wrought, brought it to his
own country, and left it to his heirs, by whom, and by Clydesdale in general, it was, and is
still, distinguished by the name of the Lee-penny, from the name of his native seat of Lee.

The most remarkable part of its history, perhaps, was that it so especially escaped condemnation
when the Church of Scotland chose to impeach many other cures which savoured of the miraculous,
as occasioned by sorcery, and censured the appeal to them, "excepting only that to the amulet,
called the Lee-penny, to which it had pleased God to annex certain healing virtues which the
Church did not presume to condemn." It still, as has been said, exists, and its powers are
sometimes resorted to. Of late, they have been chiefly restricted to the cure of persons bitten
by mad dogs; and as the illness in such cases frequently arises from imagination, there can
be no reason for doubting that water which has been poured on the Lee-penny furnishes a congenial
cure.

Such is the tradition concerning the talisman, which the author has taken the liberty to vary
in applying it to his own purposes.

Considerable liberties have also been taken with the truth of history, both with respect to
Conrade of Montserrat's life, as well as his death. That Conrade, however, was reckoned the
enemy of Richard is agreed both in history and romance. The general opinion of the terms upon
which they stood may be guessed from the proposal of the Saracens that the Marquis of Montserrat
should be invested with certain parts of Syria, which they were to yield to the Christians.
Richard, according to the romance which bears his name, "could no longer repress his fury.
The Marquis he said, was a traitor, who had robbed the Knights Hospitallers of sixty thousand
pounds, the present of his father Henry; that he was a renegade, whose treachery had occasioned
the loss of Acre; and he concluded by a solemn oath, that he would cause him to be drawn to
pieces by wild horses, if he should ever venture to pollute the Christian camp by his presence.
Philip attempted to intercede in favour of the Marquis, and throwing down his glove, offered
to become a pledge for his fidelity to the Christians; but his offer was rejected, and he was
obliged to give way to Richard's impetuosity."--HISTORY OF CHIVALRY.

Conrade of Montserrat makes a considerable figure in those wars, and was at length put to death
by one of the followers of the Scheik, or Old Man of the Mountain; nor did Richard remain free
of the suspicion of having instigated his death.

It may be said, in general, that most of the incidents introduced in the following tale are
fictitious, and that reality, where it exists, is only retained in the characters of the piece.

ABBOTSFORD, 1st July, 1832

APPENDIX TO INTRODUCTION.

While warring in the Holy Land, Richard was seized with an ague.

The best leeches of the camp were unable to effect the cure of the King's disease; but the
prayers of the army were more successful. He became convalescent, and the first symptom of
his recovery was a violent longing for pork. But pork was not likely to be plentiful in a country
whose inhabitants had an abhorrence for swine's flesh; and

     "Though his men should be hanged,
     They ne might, in that countrey,
     For gold, ne silver, ne no money,
     No pork find, take, ne get,
     That King Richard might aught of eat.
     An old knight with Richard biding,
     When he heard of that tiding,
     That the king's wants were swyche,
     To the steward he spake privyliche--
     "Our lord the king sore is sick, I wis,
     After porck he alonged is;
     Ye may none find to selle;
     No man be hardy him so to telle!
     If he did he might die.
     Now behoves to done as I shall say,
     Tho' he wete nought of that.
     Take a Saracen, young and fat;
     In haste let the thief be slain,
     Opened, and his skin off flayn;
     And sodden full hastily,
     With powder and with spicery,
     And with saffron of good colour.
     When the king feels thereof savour,
     Out of ague if he be went,
     He shall have thereto good talent.
     When he has a good taste,
     And eaten well a good repast,
     And supped of the BREWIS [Broth] a sup,
     Slept after and swet a drop,
     Through Goddis help and my counsail,
     Soon he shall be fresh and hail.'
     The sooth to say, at wordes few,
     Slain and sodden was the heathen shrew.
     Before the king it was forth brought:
     Quod his men, 'Lord, we have pork sought;
     Eates and sups of the brewis SOOTE,[Sweet]
     Thorough grace of God it shall be your boot.'
     Before King Richard carff a knight,
     He ate faster than he carve might.
     The king ate the flesh and GNEW [Gnawed] the bones,
     And drank well after for the nonce.
     And when he had eaten enough,
     His folk hem turned away, and LOUGH.[Laughed]
     He lay still and drew in his arm;
     His chamberlain him wrapped warm.
     He lay and slept, and swet a stound,
     And became whole and sound.
     King Richard clad him and arose,
     And walked abouten in the close."

An attack of the Saracens was repelled by Richard in person, the consequence of which is told
in the following lines:--

     "When King Richard had rested a whyle,
     A knight his arms 'gan unlace,
     Him to comfort and solace.
     Him was brought a sop in wine.
     'The head of that ilke swine,
     That I of ate!' (the cook he bade,)
     'For feeble I am, and faint and mad.
     Of mine evil now I am fear;
     Serve me therewith at my soupere!'
     Quod the cook, 'That head I ne have.'
     Then said the king, 'So God me save,
     But I see the head of that swine,
     For sooth, thou shalt lesen thine!'
     The cook saw none other might be;
     He fet the head and let him see.
     He fell on knees, and made a cry--
     'Lo, here the head!  my Lord, mercy!'"

The cook had certainly some reason to fear that his master would be struck with horror at the
recollection of the dreadful banquet to which he owed his recovery; but his fears were soon
dissipated. 

     A faint flavour of the gardener hung about them, but
     sophisticated and dis-bloomed. They
     had engagements to keep, not
     alone with the deliberate series of the
     seasons, but with man- kind's clocks
     and hour-long measurement of time.
     That never erst I nought wist!
     By God's death and his uprist,
     Shall we never die for default,
     While we may in any assault,
     Slee Saracens, the flesh may take,
     And seethen and roasten and do hem bake,
     [And] Gnawen her flesh to the bones!
     Now I have it proved once,
     For hunger ere I be wo,
     I and my folk shall eat mo!"'

The besieged now offered to surrender, upon conditions of safety to the inhabitants; while
all the public treasure, military machines, and arms were delivered to the victors, together
with the further ransom of one hundred thousand bezants. After this capitulation, the following
extraordinary scene took place. We shall give it in the words of the humorous and amiable George
Ellis, the collector and the editor of these Romances:--

"Though the garrison had faithfully performed the other articles of their contract, they were
unable to restore the cross, which was not in their possession, and were therefore treated
by the Christians with great cruelty. Daily reports of their sufferings were carried to Saladin;
and as many of them were persons of the highest distinction, that monarch, at the solicitation
of their friends, dispatched an embassy to King Richard with magnificent presents, which he
offered for the ransom of the captives. The ambassadors were persons the most respectable from
their age, their rank, and their eloquence. They delivered their message in terms of the utmost
humility; and without arraigning the justice of the conqueror in his severe treatment of their
countrymen, only solicited a period to that severity, laying at his feet the treasures with
which they were entrusted, and pledging themselves and their master for the payment of any
further sums which he might demand as the price of mercy.

     "King Richard spake with wordes mild.
     'The gold to take, God me shield!
     Among you partes [Divide] every charge.
     I brought in shippes and in barge,
     More gold and silver with me,
     Than has your lord, and swilke three.
     To his treasure have I no need!
     But for my love I you bid,
     To meat with me that ye dwell;
     And afterward I shall you tell.
     Thorough counsel I shall you answer,
     What BODE [Message] ye shall to your lord bear.

"The invitation was gratefully accepted. Richard, in the meantime, gave secret orders to his
marshal that he should repair to the prison, select a certain number of the most distinguished
captives, and, after carefully noting their names on a roll of parchment, cause their heads
to be instantly struck off; that these heads should be delivered to the cook, with instructions
to clear away the hair, and, after boiling them in a cauldron, to distribute them on several
platters, one to each guest, observing to fasten on the forehead of each the piece of parchment
expressing the name and family of the victim.

     "'An hot head bring me beforn,
     As I were well apayed withall,
     Eat thereof fast I shall;
     As it were a tender chick,
     To see how the others will like.'

"This horrible order was punctually executed. At noon the guests were summoned to wash by the
music of the waits. The king took his seat attended by the principal officers of his court,
at the high table, and the rest of the company were marshalled at a long table below him. On
the cloth were placed portions of salt at the usual distances, but neither bread, wine, nor
water. The ambassadors, rather surprised at this omission, but still free from apprehension,
awaited in silence the arrival of the dinner, which was announced by the sound of pipes, trumpets,
and tabours; and beheld, with horror and dismay, the unnatural banquet introduced by the steward
and his officers. Yet their sentiments of disgust and abhorrence, and even their fears, were
for a time suspended by their curiosity. Their eyes were fixed on the king, who, without the
slightest change of countenance, swallowed the morsels as fast as they could be supplied by
the knight who carved them.

     "Every man then poked other;
     They said, 'This is the devil's brother,
     That slays our men, and thus hem eats!'

"Their attention was then involuntarily fixed on the smoking heads before them. They traced
in the swollen and distorted features the resemblance of a friend or near relation, and received
from the fatal scroll which accompanied each dish the sad assurance that this resemblance was
not imaginary. They sat in torpid silence, anticipating their own fate in that of their countrymen;
while their ferocious entertainer, with fury in his eyes, but with courtesy on his lips, insulted
them by frequent invitations to merriment. At length this first course was removed, and its
place supplied by venison, cranes, and other dainties, accompanied by the richest wines. It was
thus they spoke of their past patients -familiarly but not without respect, like old family servants.
Here is indeed a servant, whom we forget that we possess; who does not wait at the bright table,
or run at the bell's summons, but patiently smokes his pipe beside the mortuary fire, and in
his faithful memory notches the burials of our race.

     To suspect Shakespeare in his maturity
     of a superficial touch savours
     of paradox; yet he was surely
     in error when he attributed insensibility to the digger of the grave.
     Too slowly was your time y-guessed;
     Ere ye came, the flesh was dressed,
     That men shoulden serve with me,
     Thus at noon, and my meynie.
     Say him, it shall him nought avail,
     Though he for-bar us our vitail,
     Bread, wine, fish, flesh, salmon, and conger;
     Of us none shall die with hunger,
     While we may wenden to fight,
     And slay the Saracens downright,
     Wash the flesh, and roast the head.
     With 0 [One] Saracen I may well feed
     Well a nine or a ten
     Of my good Christian men.
     King Richard shall warrant,
     There is no flesh so nourissant
     Unto an English man,
     Partridge, plover, heron, ne swan,
     Cow ne ox, sheep ne swine,
     As the head of a Sarazyn.
     There he is fat, and thereto tender,
     And my men be lean and slender.
     While any Saracen quick be,
     Livand now in this Syrie,
     For meat will we nothing care.
     Abouten fast we shall rare,
     And every day we shall eat
     All as many as we may get.
     To England will we nought gon,
     Till they be eaten every one.'"

      ELLIS'S SPECIMENS OF EARLY ENGLISH METRICEL ROMANCES.

The reader may be curious to know owing to what circumstances so extraordinary an invention
as that which imputed cannibalism to the King of England should have found its way into his
history. Mr. James, to whom we owe so much that is curious, seems to have traced the origin
of this extraordinary rumour.

"With the army of the cross also was a multitude of men," the same author declares, "who made
it a profession to be without money. They walked barefoot, carried no arms, and even preceded
the beasts of burden in their march, living upon roots and herbs, and presenting a spectacle
both disgusting and pitiable.

"A Norman, who, according to all accounts, was of noble birth, but who, having lost his horse,
continued to follow as a foot soldier, took the strange resolution of putting himself at the
head of this race of vagabonds, who willingly received him as their king. Amongst the Saracens
these men became well known under the name of THAFURS (which Guibert translates TRUDENTES),
and were beheld with great horror from the general persuasion that they fed on the dead bodies
of their enemies; a report which was occasionally justified, and which the king of the Thafurs
took care to encourage. This respectable monarch was frequently in the habit of stopping his
followers, one by one, in a narrow defile, and of causing them to be searched carefully, lest
the possession of the least sum of money should render them unworthy of the name of his subjects.
If even two sous were found upon any one, he was instantly expelled the society of his tribe,
the king bidding him contemptuously buy arms and fight.

"This troop, so far from being cumbersome to the army, was infinitely serviceable, carrying
burdens, bringing in forage, provisions, and tribute; working the machines in the sieges; and,
above all, spreading consternation among the Turks, who feared death from the lances of the
knights less than that further consummation they heard of under the teeth of the Thafurs."
[James's "History of Chivalry."]

It is easy to conceive that an ignorant minstrel, finding the taste and ferocity of the Thafurs
commemorated in the historical accounts of the Holy Wars, has ascribed their practices and
propensities to the Monarch of England, whose ferocity was considered as an object of exaggeration
as legitimate as his valour.

ABBOTSFORD, 1st July, 1832.

TALES OF THE CRUSADERS. TALE II.--THE TALISMAN.

CHAPTER I.

     They, too, retired
     To the wilderness, but 'twas with arms.
         PARADISE REGAINED.

The burning sun of Syria had not yet attained its highest point in the horizon, when a knight
of the Red Cross, who had left his distant northern home and joined the host of the Crusaders
in Palestine, was pacing slowly along the sandy deserts which lie in the vicinity of the Dead
Sea, or, as it is called, the Lake Asphaltites, where the waves of the Jordan pour themselves
into an inland sea, from which there is no discharge of waters.

The warlike pilgrim had toiled among cliffs and precipices during the earlier part of the morning.
More lately, issuing from those rocky and dangerous defiles, he had entered upon that great
plain, where the accursed cities provoked, in ancient days, the direct and dreadful vengeance
of the Omnipotent.

The toil, the thirst, the dangers of the way, were forgotten, as the traveller recalled the
fearful catastrophe which had converted into an arid and dismal wilderness the fair and fertile
valley of Siddim, once well watered, even as the Garden of the Lord, now a parched and blighted
waste, condemned to eternal sterility.

Crossing himself, as he viewed the dark mass of rolling waters, in colour as in duality unlike
those of any other lake, the traveller shuddered as he remembered that beneath these sluggish
waves lay the once proud cities of the plain, whose grave was dug by the thunder of the heavens,
or the eruption of subterraneous fire, and whose remains were hid, even by that sea which holds
no living fish in its bosom, bears no skiff on its surface, and, as if its own dreadful bed
were the only fit receptacle for its sullen waters, sends not, like other lakes, a tribute
to the ocean. The whole land around, as in the days of Moses, was "brimstone and salt; it is
not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth thereon." The land as well as the lake might be
termed dead, as producing nothing having resemblance to vegetation, and even the very air was
entirely devoid of its ordinary winged inhabitants, deterred probably by the odour of bitumen
and sulphur which the burning sun exhaled from the waters of the lake in steaming clouds, frequently
assuming the appearance of waterspouts. Masses of the slimy and sulphureous substance called
naphtha, which floated idly on the sluggish and sullen waves, supplied those rolling clouds
with new vapours, and afforded awful testimony to the truth of the Mosaic history.

