NOTES

ON

THE APOCALYPSE;

WITH

An Appendix

CONTAINING DISSERTATIONS ON SOME OF THE APOCALYPTIC SYMBOLS,

TOGETHER WITH

ANIMADVERSIONS ON THE INTERPRETATIONS OF SEVERAL AMONG THE MOST LEARNED AND APPROVED EXPOSITORS
OF BRITAIN AND AMERICA.

BY DAVID STEELE, Sr.,

Pastor of the Reformed Presbyterian Congregation, Philadelphia.

PHILADELPHIA: YOUNG & FERGUSON, No. 14 SOUTH SEVENTH ST. 1870.

TO THE

REV. JOHN CUNNINGHAM, LL.D.,

Missionary from the Reformed Presbyterian Church to the Jews in London, England.

REV. AND VERY DEAR FRIEND AND BROTHER:--

Although we are "separated upon the wall, one far from the other," we are not altogether precluded
from mutual salutation. Placed by our Master on two hemispheres, between which the electric
current bears frequent tidings, our respective positions are advantageous for noting the events
of providence. These constitute the signs of the times, and are the counterpart of prophecy.
Prophecy and providence reflect light upon each other, and both are helpful to the interpretation
of each; but He alone who is the "Wonderful Counsellor," can cause us to understand either.

In submitting the following work to the public, I venture to do so under your auspices, if
not under the sanction of your name. And I embrace the present occasion, Rev. Sir, to bear
willing testimony to your acknowledged scholarship,--your profound erudition, especially in
Natural Science and Philology. I do also cheerfully and joyfully recognise you as a public
witness; and at the present time of general defection, as an official and consistent witness
in the British Isles for the integrity of our Covenanted Reformation,--that reformation which
in its fuller development is destined to secure the rights of God and man in reorganized society.
Such, I believe to be one of the cheering lessons which may be learned by Christ's witnesses
from searching the Apocalypse.

That you, Dear Sir, may be long preserved, sustained and comforted by the providence and grace
of the Most High, amid all your self-sacrifice, privation and reproach which you endure for
the truth's Bake, is the prayer of

Your brother in covenant bonds,

DAVID STEELE.

PHILADELPHIA, February 1st, 1870.

PREFACE

The Apocalypse is one of the most sublime and wonderful dramatic exhibitions presented for
human contemplation. Internal evidence concurs with authentic history, in demonstrating to
the devout and intelligent reader, its divine origin. God, angels and men, are the principal
actors. Men's natural curiosity may find entertainment in this book; and from no higher principle,
many have doubtless been prompted to attempt a discovery of its mysterious contents. What is
true, however, of supernatural revelation in general, is equally true of this book:--"The natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them, because they are
spiritually discerned."

To the right understanding of the Apocalypse, so far as the prophetical parts of it are contemplated,
the following prerequisites would seem to be indispensable:--

1. A competent knowledge of what may be termed the fundamental doctrines of the gospel: such
as the unity of the Divine Nature; the distinction of persons in the Godhead; the atonement
and intercession of Christ; the total depravity and renovation of human nature; the resurrection
and final retribution, etc.

2. Acquaintance with symbolical language, as the only language common to all men since the
confusion of tongues.

3. Familiarity with the typical dispensation, from which most of the symbols are taken. 4.
Freedom from all political bias.

No expositor of the Apocalypse appears to have possessed all these qualifications, however
few and simple. The most learned and judicious interpreters of this book have been divines
of Britain and of the United States.

After so many laborers employed in this harvest, the reader may ask,--What remains to be gleaned?
To this inquiry, it may be sufficient to remind the devout Christian, that as the Apocalypse
is the end of the Bible, so "the harvest is the end of the world;" and during the intermediate
time "the Lord of the harvest is sending forth laborers." Prophecy has engaged the attention
and occupied the thoughts of the writer, more or less, for the last thirty years. He has consulted
the views of most of the distinguished and approved interpreters of the book of Revelation;
among whom the following are named, viz.: Mede, Sir Isaac and Bishop Newton, Durham, Fleming,
Gill, Whitaker, Kett, Galloway, Faber, Scott, Mason, McLeod; and many others: from all whose
labors, he has derived much instruction; and from all of whom he has been obliged in important
points to dissent.

The immediate occasion of this undertaking, was the urgent request of the people of his charge,
that the substance of a course of lectures delivered in ordinary Sabbath ministrations, might
be put into a more permanent form, for their future edification.

In the early centuries of the Christian era, so wild, enthusiastic and corrupt were the sentiments
of some Millenarians, that this book ceased in great measure to be read or studied; and even
its divine authority came to be questioned by many learned and pious men. As the "Dark Ages"
of Popery resulted from neglect of the sacred Scriptures in general, so even among the first
reformers the Apocalypse was viewed with suspicion as to its claim to inspiration. It is probable
that many of the unlearned will hear with wonder, and doubt the assertion, that even the great
reformer Luther rejected the Apocalypse, as being no part of the sacred canon! The same judgment
he formed of the epistle by James! With characteristic boldness, he wrote as follows:--"The
epistle of James hath nothing evangelical in it. I do not consider it the writing of an apostle
at all.... It ascribes justification to works, in direct contradiction to Paul and all the
other sacred writers.... With respect to the Revelation of John, I state what I feel. For more
than one reason, I cannot deem this book either apostolic or prophetical, ... and it is sufficient
reason for me not to esteem it highly, that Christ is neither taught nor known in it."[1] Such
was the estimation in which that distinguished reformer held two inspired books of the New
Testament at the dawn of the Reformation. How great the increase of scriptural light since his day!

The grand design of this book, as declared by its divine Author, is, "to show unto his servants
things which must shortly come to pass," ... "to testify these things in the churches:"--to
make known beforehand, to those styled his "witnesses," the certainty of a great apostacy,--the
rise, reign and overthrow of the Antichrist, that "when it came to pass, they might believe,"
and exemplify before the world "the patience and the faith of the saints." During that protracted
period, the witnesses could neither know their duty nor sustain their allotted trials without
these necessary instructions.

From the position of the witnessing church--"in the wilderness" during the whole time of Antichrist's
reign, which is also the position of the apostle John when viewing in vision the "woman upon
the beast;" (ch. xvii. 3,) that appears to be the only advantageous position from which to
view the actors in this wonderful scene. And since few have voluntarily "gone forth to Christ
without the camp, bearing his reproach," or submitted to wear the mourning garments of "sackcloth,"
it is not at all surprising that the Apocalypse--emphatically a Revelation--should continue
to be, to many, a "sealed book." But on the other hand, "blessed is he that readeth, and they
that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein."

As this work is intended for the instruction and edification of the unlearned, rather than
for the entertainment of the learned, words of foreign extract are used as seldom as possible.
Practical remarks and reflections are rarely introduced; the principal aim being simply to
ascertain and present to the reader the mind of the Holy Spirit. How far this object has been
accomplished, is of course left to the judgment of the honest inquirer. The reader, however,
in forming his judgment of the value of these Notes, may be reminded of that inspired rule
in searching the Scriptures,--"Comparing spiritual things with spiritual." To assist him in
the application of this divine rule, many chapters and verses are quoted from other parts of
the Bible, but especially within the Apocalypse itself; that by concentrating the various rays
upon particular texts or symbols, their intrinsic light may be rendered more luminous. Thus
the interpretation given, if correct, may be confirmed and illustrated.

NOTES ON THE APOCALYPSE.

The heavens and the earth did not make themselves. The material universe furnishes to the intelligent
creature a visible demonstration of the "eternal power and godhead of its Author." Besides,
a sense of Deity is essential to humanity; and a supernatural revelation is not necessary to
convince rational beings that there is a God. Man is a dependent being in common with all other
creatures, and all creatures depend upon a first cause. That cause is God. Dependent as a creature,
man may know something of the natural perfections of his Maker; and possessing a conscience,
which implies accountability to a superior, he may know,--he must know, something of the moral
attributes of God.

In view of these positions, we may account for the fact, too often overlooked by the reader
of the Bible, that the Holy Spirit directed the first of all historians to begin his narrative
so abruptly. Assuming that the reader is already assured of God's being, Moses proceeds at
once to account for the origination of the material universe. In simple narrative he writes,--"In
the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." One of two things had to be done: we had
to cross the river within a very few days or else turn back. And turning back was a thing
I had always hated doing.

The river was indeed a formidable obstacle.

It showed no signs of subsiding, for thunderstorms still broke on and behind the mountain range.
In the vicinity where the raft lay the channel was about a hundred yards wide and was very deep.
The current here was sluggish, but just above was a long and dangerous rapid with many rocks
projecting from the water. On these rocks crocodiles of various sizes used to bask with half
opened jaws. Around the head of each saurian several little birds would flutter and hop, occasionally
entering the toothed death-trap without the least apparent fear. These birds were useful in
picking parasites from between the monsters' teeth.

One day in exploring the river bank above the rapids in search of
a drift, I walked along the edge of the water immediately at the foot
of a steep sand-dune about fifteen feet in height.

The top of this, but I was unaware of the fact, was occupied by a large number of crocodiles
of all sizes, they ranged from one to about fifteen feet in length. These took alarm and flung
themselves into the water, both in front and behind me. One cut me across the shin with its tail
in passing. I carry the mark of the cut to this day.

To return to the problem of crossing the river.

We had brought with us some strong, light, hempen rope for the purpose
of lowering our swags down steep and difficult places.

This, with infinite labor we unwound, separating the strands and
joining them again lengthwise.

The result was still too short for our purpose, so we sought in the forest for monkey-ropes.
These we crushed, and, after separating and partly drying the fibers, we twisted the latter into
a strong, light cable.

When we judged that our cable, plus the line a was long enough to reach the other side, we attempted
to carry one end of the latter across the river for the purpose of towing back the raft. Over
and over again one of the bearers and I made the attempt, but when
we got about three parts of the way across, the slow, steady pressure
of the current would fill the bend of the line and sweep us down stream.

We had spent most of the previous day in shooting at crocodiles on the rocks in the rapid, for
the purpose of driving them from the neighborhood. We had wounded several. On the day of our
attempt not a saurian was to be seen. Nevertheless, I felt extremely nervous. The carcass of one
monster we had wounded afterwards washed up; it measured upwards of sixteen feet.

After our repeated failures to carry the line across, nothing remained to be done but to attempt
a crossing at the rapids. This we succeeded in doing, but the attempt nearly cost MacLean his
life. He was an indifferent swimmer. The day was blazing hot. I stripped, but MacLean, disregarding
every one's advice, insisted on swimming in his shirt. We had to creep slowly from rock to
rock, through tumbling water, with an occasional short swim through a deeper channel. The river was here
much wider than at the scene of our former attempt.

When we were about half-way across MacLean stumbled. As he attempted to recover his foothold, facing
the time down-stream, the current filled his shirt from behind and
carried it over his head. Then he rolled helplessly down the rapid
towards the deep reach. I floundered after, and succeeded in overtaking
him.

The channel through which the divine will comes to the church, is exhibited in the beginning
of this book. Originating with God the Father, passing to the Mediator, communicated to a holy
angel; by his ministry it is made known to John, who reveals it to the church! How beautiful
the order here! How wonderful and condescending on the part of God!

Although we commonly and justly designate the whole Bible by the name "Revelation;" yet we
are to consider that this book is so called by way of eminence. Doubtless it is so styled by
its divine Author because it reveals events which were then future, and which could not be
discovered by human sagacity. But this holds equally true of other parts of the Scriptures,
especially those parts which are prophetical. It may be that this book is called "Apocalypse"
because of the opposition which it was to encounter from Antichrist, as also because of its
singular and intended use to a peculiar portion of professing Christians. As on the one hand
the Romish church, and too many who protest against her encroachments, prohibit or discourage
the disciples of Christ from reading this book; so, on the other hand, it has been of singular
use to others in strengthening their faith and ministering to their comfort. A question arises
here,--What is the difference, if any, between the "word of God" and the "testimony of Jesus
Christ?" Or is there any distinction intended by the Holy Spirit? Most readers as well as expositors
view these expressions as identical. We shall meet with them, or their equivalent, frequently
hereafter; and it may be proper at the outset to inquire a little into this familiar phraseology.
(See chapters i. 9; vi. 9; xii. 11, 17; xx. 4, etc.)

Recognising the inspired rule of interpretation,--"comparing spiritual things with spiritual,"
we refer to Psalm lxxviii. 5, where "testimony and law" are obviously distinguished. The same
distinction will be found in Isa. viii. 16, 20. The prophet refers the reader to two tests
of doctrine and practice: first the "law." But as the spouse of Christ is unable, in her perplexity,
to apply the law to the present case in a manner satisfactory to herself, she is directed by
her Lord, (Song i. 8,) to "go forth by the footsteps of the flock." That is, search and ascertain
how the disciples applied the law in similar circumstances, and imitate their approved example.
This is a rule recognised and often inculcated in the New Testament. (Heb. vi. 12.)

The inspired penman in Psalm lxxviii. 5, refers to the covenant transaction at Mount Sinai,
where the "law" was exhibited as an appendix to the covenant of grace--"added to the promise."
(Gal. iii. 19.) The reader will find this whole matter set before him, perhaps to his surprise
and delight in Exod. xx. 1-17. The Lord (Jehovah) is the God (Elohim) of his people. How shall
they know that he is their God? By the law?--No, for that is a rule to all men. They know by
the testimony as distinct from the law. Testimony consists of facts. This was "the doing of
the Lord,"--"the testimony of Jesus Christ." And so it is an important and precious truth to
us at the present day.--"The preface to the Ten Commandments teacheth us, that God is the Lord
(Jehovah) and our God."--This great historical fact is the controlling motive to acceptable
obedience to the moral law. To this, among other truths of the gospel, every faithful minister
will "bear witness" with the apostle John.

John also bore witness to "all things that he saw," as presented to him in a succession of
visions to the end of this book, in view of some of which, he "wondered with great admiration."
(xvii. 6.)

In the third verse there is a "blessing" pronounced on all such as "hear, read and keep those
things which are written in the words of this prophecy." A mere reading and hearing of the
Apocalypse will not secure the blessing. It is suspended on the keeping. "Blessed is he that
keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book." (Ch. xxii. 7.) The divine and compassionate
Author of this prophecy, who "knoweth the end from the beginning," foresaw the violent and
ignorant opposition even to the reading of it, which would be encountered by those for whose
special direction and comfort it was given. While the "man of sin" would attempt to deprive
the church of the light of the Bible in general, the great "Antichrist" would join him in special
hostility to this book. The judgment of the former is, that the Bible in the hands of the people
will generate heresies; of the latter,--the Apocalypse is so "hard to be understood" as to
be unintelligible. A revelation, and yet unintelligible! This is very nearly a contradiction.
Such sentiments betray rebellion against the authority, and a reflection upon the wisdom and
beneficence of God. All Christians acknowledge, as Peter says of the writings of Paul, that
in this book are "some things dark and hard to be understood:" but there have been always and
now are, some disciples who do not subscribe to the teaching of most expositors of this book,--that
their actual fulfilment, alone, will interpret these predictions.--Doubtless it was in view
of such discouragements that our Lord prefixed and repeated the special blessing. And this
promised blessing of the Master himself is sufficient to countervail all the discouragements
and hostility of the adversaries, thrown in the way of the reader and expositor. Moses "endured
as having respect unto the recompense of the reward." Let us copy his example. "He is faithful
that promised." Let the pious reader, therefore, disregard the counsel to "omit the reading,
of this book in family worship," as we have sometimes heard; whether it be tendered by Papist,
Prelate or Presbyterian, because it is directly contrary to the express command of Christ,
(John v. 39,) and because by following such counsel, he would forfeit the special blessing
here promised.

Vs. 4-6.--Here we have the customary salutation, addressed to the churches of Asia Minor. Many
other churches had been organized in other parts of the earth at this date; (A.D. 96:) but
the special reason why John saluted these seven, and addressed an epistle to each, would seem
to be his vicinity to them in the place of his present sojourning, and probably his personal
acquaintance with them in the exercise of his ministry among them, (v. 11.) His prayer for
these churches is substantially the same as that prefixed to most of Paul's epistles. Grace
and peace are inseparable in the divine arrangement. "There is no peace, saith my God, to the
wicked." (Isa. lvii. 21.)

The solitary pilgrim in his place of banishment, contemplating the Abrahamic covenant, and
realizing that grace and that peace in which he desires his fellow disciples to share, sets
before us the threefold source whence these divine influences flow. First, "from him which
is, and which was, and which is to come;" a description of God the Father, whose personal subsistence
has priority in the Godhead, and who occupies the like priority in voluntary relationship and
economic standing. From the Father personally, as the representative of Trinity, we have seen
(in verse 1,) this book emanated; and now from the same we are taught that "grace and peace"
come to fallen man. Thus our attention is directed to the "seven Spirits which are before the
throne;" by which we are to understand the Holy Ghost, in his essential equality with God the
Father, but in the place of official subordination. The Holy Spirit is one personally, but
seven in his manifold gifts and graces, with special reference to the "seven churches." And
whereas the divine Spirit, in the order of his personal subsistence and operation is third,
here he occupies the second place in the order of revelation. Third, The special reason for
reserving the notice of our Saviour to the last place, is doubtless that the "beloved disciple"
may take occasion to leave on record an expression of his admiration of the Mediator's person,
one of whose names is "Wonderful," (Isa. ix. 6;) and that he might exemplify the ruling principle
of his own heart,--"We love him, because he first loved us." (1 John iv. 19.) The apostle dwells
upon the personal glory of Immanuel, contemplating him in his threefold office of prophet,
priest and king.--He is "the faithful witness" in his prophetical office. (John xviii. 37.)
He is "the first-begotten of the dead." He "died unto sin once," as an expiatory sacrifice
to atone for the guilt of an elect world. Being a "priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek,"
"he ever liveth to make intercession,"--"death hath no more dominion over him," as it had over
Lazarus and many others who "came out of the graves after his resurrection." (Matt, xxvii.
52, 53.) Among all, he has the preeminence. (Col. i. 18.) He is "the Prince of the kings of
the earth." There is not in the sacred volume a title of our Redeemer more full or expressive
than this, on his headship or royal office. A prince is of royal parentage. Such is the understanding
of mankind in all civilized nations. Joseph in Egypt typified, in part, the kingly office of
Christ; and Solomon on the throne of Israel partially typified him in his dominion: but as
Balaam foretold that he should be "higher than Agag," (Num. xxiv. 7,) so we may say he is higher
than Joseph,--"A greater than Solomon is here." "Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Thou shalt be over
my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will
I be greater than thou." When the Father says to the Son, "Thy throne, O God, is for ever and
ever," (Ps. xlv. 6,) this is consistent with "excepting him that did put all things under him."
(1 Cor. xv. 27.) Although we are not warranted to say with some, "The Father is the fountain
of the Godhead, we may warrantably and boldly say, the Father is the fountain of authority.
(John vi. 38.) The dominion of the Mediator is universal, reaching "from the roofless heaven
to the bottomless hell." It is comfortable to the disciples to know this in anticipation of
the rise and reign of Antichrist. He is, by the appointment of the Father "head over all things,"
(Eph. i. 22,)--"able to save to the uttermost all that come unto God by him," to "consume with
the spirit of his mouth, and destroy with the brightness of his coming, that Wicked, the Man
of Sin." (2 Thess. ii. 8.)

In view of the personal dignity and mediatorial dominion of Christ, the apostle gives expression
to his admiration and wonder at the amazing love and condescension displayed by him on behalf
of himself and all others, on whom that love was fixed from everlasting, and whose guilt and
pollution were taken away by the atoning and cleansing blood of the Lamb. To these saving benefits
is to be added the honour to which the redeemed are advanced as "kings and priests,--a royal
priesthood." The living Head is "a priest upon his throne," (Zech. vi. 13,) and all the members
are assimilated to him. (1 Pet. ii.

Verse 7.--How animated the language, sublime the conception, and awe-inspiring the sentiment
here! Time is annihilated! The end is seen from the beginning, and all eyes are directed to
the sovereign Judge of the world, as he comes in majesty to fix the final destiny of all the
children of Adam! These have constituted only two classes sincere world began. "Every eye shall
see him," but the eye will affect the heart very differently. The hearts of some, with holy
Job, will be filled with joy unspeakable, (Job xix. 26, 27;) but others, with mercenary Balaam,
will be inspired with terror and dismay. (Num. xxiv. 17.) Of "them that pierced him," who shall
be able to abide his indignation? Judas, Caiaphas, Herod and his men of war; Pontius Pilate,
and all who have consented to the counsel and deed of them, "must appear before his judgment
seat." "All kindreds of the earth," covering all the combinations of "Antichrist" during the
definite period of twelve hundred and sixty years, "shall wail because of him," (Rev. xiv.
10, 11.) Assured of the equity of Messiah's judgment, the apostle, in the exercise of "like
precious faith with all them that believe," subjoins his hearty assent,--"Even so, Amen:" "So
let all thine enemies perish, O Lord." Doubtless the design of the Holy Spirit in this verse
is to furnish ground of encouragement to those who were to be engaged in the protracted conflict
with the powers of darkness foreshadowed in the prophecy of this book.

Ver. 8.--The same divine person, to whom the apostle directs the doxology in the 6th verse,
is introduced in the 8th: that is, the Lord Christ. He claims eternity and omnipotence. He
describes himself here in the very words which in the 4th verse are descriptive of the eternal
subsistence of the person of the Father. "Alpha and Omega," the first and last letters of the
Greek alphabet, are explained in the words,--"the beginning and the ending." This language
is not to be understood as expressing or defining the duration of the Godhead only; but it
points also to the divine purpose and providence. I computed, taking the prospect I had as my basis,
that there was upwards of two hundred pounds' worth of gold in those two heaps.

Having now come literally to the end of my resources, I again started carrying down stuff to
the little spring and there panning it out. But the spring was failing on account of the drought,
and the little puddled dam hardly collected enough water during the night to admit of panning.
The result of a fortnight's unspeakably hard work was about four
shillings' worth of gold.

The trickle of water diminished daily, until the spring yielded barely enough for my drinking. Then
my boots began to wear out under the strain of clambering up and down the steep, rocky path.


Ver. 9.--Again, the inspired writer addresses the Christians in Asia, acquainting them very
briefly and simply with his present local situation; not so much to move their sympathy with
him, as to express his unabated affection for them:--"I am your brother, and companion in tribulation."
Although the "like afflictions were accomplished in his brethren," the Devil was permitted
to "cast" only "some of them into prison." But it is remarkable that John utters not a word,
much less manifests any resentment, against the persecutor. He was "in the isle that is called
Patmos:"--but he does not say who sent him there. Historians tell us that he was banished by
Domitian, the Roman emperor; others say, by Nero; but the former is more probable. This island
is proverbially barren. It is situated among a number of islands in the Aegean sea, a point
of the Mediterranean running northward between Europe and Asia, and not very remote from most
of the churches here addressed.

The ground of controversy between John and his persecutors was "the word of God, and the testimony
of Jesus Christ." Of these he "bare record." (v, 2.) "This," say most expositors, "was the
cause of John's banishment." This unguarded language confounds the difference between a cause
and an occasion. John had given no cause of banishment to his enemies. The true cause of their
hostility was their hatred of the "word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ." For these
John contended earnestly, as Jude enjoined; (ver. 3:) just as Paul and others were "bold in
their God to speak the gospel of God with much contention." (1 Thes. ii. 2.) We have here the
standing ground of strife between the believer and the infidel; between Christ and Belial,
between the church and the world. There is a divine hand interposed all along in this warfare,
and the conflict will terminate only in the extermination of one of the parties. (Gen. iii.
15; Rev. xx. 10.)

10. I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,

Ver. 10.--The beloved disciple had often "tasted the good word of God," while the bosom-companion
of Christ in the time of his ministry on earth: His "heart burned within him." (Luke xxiv.
32.) Especially had this been his happy experience on the holy Sabbath. Now that his condition
is solitary, being by violence "driven out from the inheritance of the Lord," (1 Sam. xxvi.
19,) his gracious Master favours him with a special visit. Did he not say to his disciples
while he was yet with them,--"I will not leave you comfortless? I will come to you." (John
xiv. 18.) The Comforter was promised to supply the want of the Saviour's bodily presence, (v.
16,) and now John is "in the Spirit," and it is "the Lord's day,"--the Christian Sabbath. We
may well suppose this disciple never was happier, no, not when he was "leaning on Jesus' bosom."
He would not now envy the emperor or any of his persecutors in all their outward peace and
prosperity. He was in an ecstasy,--"whether in the body or out of the body he could not tell:"
but his soul was susceptible of the impressions of Christ's love, and of the intimations of
his sovereign will. "Shall I hide from Abraham the thing which I do?" (Gen. xviii. 7.) John
does not boast as Balaam,--"falling into a trance, but having his eyes open:" yet he heard
and saw as distinctly and clearly as if his perceptions had come through the medium of his
bodily ears and eyes. "I have found a diamond," I replied loftily.

"What!" he said, with a start.

"Where is it?"

I searched through all the pockets and interstices
of my coat with trembling fingers. I turned every pocket inside out,
but no diamond could I find.
This book being written in the Greek language, our Saviour names and appropriates to himself
the first and last letters of the alphabet in that language, and gives the interpretation,--"the
first and the last," as in v. 8. John is directed to write and send to the seven churches all
that is contained in this last book of the Bible. The churches are named here, and in the second
and third chapters they are addressed severally in a letter to each. It may be noted that besides
the general commission to preach the gospel to every creature, apostles had a special call
to write; and sometimes a prohibition,--"write not," (ch. x. 4.) Many of the most learned and
godly divines whom we would consider best qualified, have never left any writings for the instruction
of posterity; whilst others less qualified, either in respect of literature or piety, or not
at all qualified, have filled the world with books without a special call from Christ. (John
xx. 30, 31; xxi.

Vs. 12-16.--His attention being arrested, the apostle "turned to see the voice,"--that is,
the person from whom the voice came. A glorious vision was presented to his view,--"seven golden
candlesticks" or lamp-bearers, in allusion to the golden candlestick with the seven lamps as
placed in the tabernacle. (Exod. xxv. 31-40.) "In the midst of the candlesticks appeared one
like unto the Son of man," the Mediator, clothed in sacerdotal garments, supplying oil for
the light, after the example of Aaron and his sons. (Exod. xxvii. He and Bret Harte had been mates.
Mulcahy had prospected far and wide among the Rocky Mountains, and had even crossed the Yukon River
on one of his trips.

Solitary in his habits and possessed of a most violent temper, Mulcahy was usually disliked by
those with whom he came in contact. But he attracted me very strongly. Aged, I should say, about
forty five yellow-bearded, exceedingly handsome, strong, and tall
there was, nevertheless, a suggestion of something sinister about him. (John v. 25, Heb. xii. 26.) "The sharp two-edged sword" will represent
his awful justice against the impenitent who resist his righteous authority. "With the breath
of his lips shall he slay the wicked." (Is. xi. 4; Luke xix. 27.) "His countenance as the sun
shining in his strength," disclosed to the beloved disciple such splendor as to overwhelm him.
The like display of divine majesty was insupportable to Saul of Tarsus when on his way to Damascus.
(Acts xxvi. 13.) To the workers of iniquity, "our God is a consuming fire." (Heb. xii. 29.)
It is a certain truth,--"The vengeance of the gospel is weighter than the vengeance of the
law." (Heb. x. 28, 31.) "Let us therefore fear."

