I have just been to the weaver's, looking at his loom and appliances. The host took me down
to his cottage over the brow of the village, where some young men were finishing the skeleton
of a canoe; and we found his family crowded round a low table on green stools with rope seats,
finishing their dinner of potatoes. A little later the old weaver, who looks pale and sickly
compared with the other islanders, took me into a sort of outhouse with a damp feeling in the
air, where his loom was set up. He showed me how it was worked, and then brought out some pieces
of stuff that he had woven. At first I was puzzled by the fine brown colour of some of the
material; but they explained it was from selected wools of the black or mottled sheep that
are common here, and are so variegated that many tints of grey or brown can be had from their
fleeces. The wool for the flannel is sometimes spun on this island; sometimes it is given to
women in Dunquin, who spin it cheaply for so much a pound. Then it is woven, and finally the
stuff is sent to a mill in Dingle to be cleaned and dressed before it is given to a tailor
in Dingle to be made up for their own use. Such cloth is not cheap, but is of wonderful quality
and strength. When I came out of the weaver's, a little sailing smack was anchored in the sound,
and someone on board her was blowing a horn. They told me she was the French boat, and as I
went back to my cottage I could see many canoes hurrying out to her with their cargoes of lobsters
and crabs.

I have left the island again. I walked round the cliffs in the morning, and then packed my
bag in my room, several girls putting their heads Into the little window while I did so, to
say it was a great pity I was not staying on for another week or a fortnight. Then the men
went off with my bag in a heavy shower, and I waited a minute or two while the little hostess
buttered some bread for my lunch, and tied it up in a clean handkerchief of her own. Then I
bid them good-bye, and set off down to the slip with three girls, who came with me to see that
I did not go astray among the innumerable paths. It was still raining heavily, so I told them
to put my cape, which they were carrying, over their heads. They did so with delight, and ran
down the path before me, to the great amusement of the islanders. At the head of the cliff
many people were standing about to bid me good-bye and wish me a good voyage.

The wind was in our favour, so the men took in their oars after rowing for about a quarter
of a mile and lay down in the bottom of the canoe, while one man ran up the sail, and the host
steered with an oar. At Dunquin the host hired me a dray, without springs, kissed my hand in
farewell, and I was driven away.

I have made my way round the foot of Dingle Bay and up the south coast to a cottage where I
often lodge. As I was resting in a ditch some time in the afternoon, on a lonely mountain road,
a little girl came along with a shawl over her head. She stopped in front of me and asked me
where I was going, and then after a little talk: 'Well, man, let you come,' she said; 'I'm
going your road as well as you.' I got up and we started. When I got tired of the hill I mounted,
and she ran along beside me for several miles, till we fell in with some people cutting turf
and she stopped to talk to them.

Then for a while my road ran round an immense valley of magnificent rich turf bog, with mountains
all round, and bowls where hidden lakes were lying bitten out of the cliffs.

As I was resting again on a bridge over the Behy where Diarmuid caught salmon with Grania,
a man stopped to light his pipe and talk to me. 'There are three lakes above,' he said, 'Coomacarra,
Coomaglaslaw and Coomasdhara; the whole of this place was in a great state in the bad times.
Twenty years ago they sent down a 'mergency man to lodge above by the lake and serve processes
on the people, but the people were off before him and lay abroad in the heather. Then, in the
course of a piece, a night came, with great rain out of the heavens, and my man said: "I'll
get them this night in their own beds, surely." Then he let call the peelers--they had peelers
waiting to mind him--and down they come to the big steppingstones they have above for crossing
the first river coming out of the lakes; my man going in front to cross over, and the water
was high up covering the Stones. Then he gave two leps or three, and the peelers heard him
give a great shriek down in the flood. They went home after--what could they do?--and the 'mergency
man was found in the sea stuck in a net.'

I was singularly pleased when I turned up the boreen at last to this cottage where I lodge,
an looked down through a narrow gully to Dingle Bay. The people bade me welcome when came in,
the old woman kissing my hand.

There is no village near this cottage, yet many farms are scattered on the hills near it; and
as the people are in some ways a leading family, many men and women look in to talk or tell
stories, or to buy a few pennyworth of sugar or starch. Although the main road passes a few
hundred yards to the west, this cottage is well known also to the race of local tramps who
move from one family to another in some special neighbourhood or barony. This evening, when
I came in, a little old man in a tall hat and long brown coat was sitting up on the settle
beside the fire, and intending to spend, one could see, a night or more in the place.

I had a great deal to tell the people at first of my travels in different parts of the county,
to the Blasket Islands--which they can see from here--Corkaguiney and Tralee; and they had
news to tell me also of people who have married or died since I was here before, or gone away,
or come back from America. Then I was told that the old man, Dermot (or Darby, as he is called
in English), was the finest story-teller in Iveragh; and after a while he told us a long story
in Irish, but spoke so rapidly and indistinctly--he had no teeth--that I could understand but
few passages. When he had finished I asked him where he had heard the story.

'I heard it in the city of Portsmouth,' he said. 'I worked there for fifteen years, and four
years in Plymouth, and a long while in the hills of Wales; twenty-five years in all I was working
at the other side; and there were many Irish in it, who would be telling stories in the evening,
the same as we are doing here. I heard many good stories, but what can I do with them now and
I an old lisping fellow, the way I can't give them out like a ballad?'

When he had talked a little more about his travels, and a bridge over the Severn, that he thought
the greatest wonder of the world, I asked him if he remembered the Famine.

'I do,' he said. 'I was living near Kenmare, and many's the day I saw them burying the corpses
in the ditch by the road. It was after that I went to England, for this country was ruined
and destroyed. I heard there was work at that time in Plymouth; so I went to Dublin and took
a boat that was going to England; but it was at a place called Liverpool they put me on shore,
and then I had to walk to Plymouth, asking my way on the road. In that place I saw the soldiers
after coming back from the Crimea, and they all broken and maimed.'

A little later, when he went out for a moment, the people told me he beats up and down between
Killorglin and Ballinskelligs and the Inny river, and that he is a particular crabby kind of
man, and will not take anything from the people but coppers and eggs.

'And he's a wasteful old fellow with all,' said the woman of the house, 'though he's eighty
years old or beyond it, for whatever money he'll get one day selling his eggs to the coastguards,
he'll spend it the next getting a drink when he's thirsty, or keeping good boots on his feet.'

From that they began talking of misers, and telling stories about them.

'There was an old woman,' said one of the men, 'living beyond to the east, and she was thought
to have a great store of money. She had one daughter only, and in the course of a piece a young
lad got married to her, thinking he'd have her fortune. The woman died after--God be merciful
to her!--and left the two of them as poor as they were before. Well, one night a man that knew
them was passing to the fair of Puck, and he came in and asked would they give him a lodging
for that night. They gave him what they had and welcome; and after his tea, when they were
sitting over the fire--the way we are this night--the man asked them how they were so poor-looking,
and if the old woman had left nothing behind her.

'"Not a farthing did she leave," said the daughter.

"And did she give no word or warning or message in her last moments?" said the man.

'"She did not," said the daughter, "except only that I shouldn't comb out the hair of her poll
and she dead."

'"And you heeded her?" said the man.

'"I did, surely," said the daughter.

'"Well," said the man, "to-morrow night when I'm gone let the two of you go down the Relic
(the graveyard), and dig up her coffin and look in her hair and see what it is you'll find in it."

'"We'll do that," said the daughter, and with that they all stretched out for the night.

'The next evening they went down quietly with a shovel and they dug up the coffin, and combed
through her hair, and there behind her poll they found her fortune, five hundred pounds, in
good notes and gold.'

'There was an old fellow living on the little hill beyond the graveyard,' said Danny-boy, when
the man had finished, 'and he had his fortune some place hid in his bed, and he was an old
weak fellow, so that they were all watching him to see he wouldn't hide it away. One time there
was no one in it but himself and a young girl, and the old fellow slipped out of his bed and
went out of the door as far as a little bush and some stones. The young girl kept her eye on
him, and she made sure he'd hidden something in the bush; so when he was back in his bed she
called the people, and they all came and looked in the bushes, but not a thing could they find.
The old man died after, and no one ever found his fortune to this day.'

'There were some young lads a while since,' said the old woman, 'and they went up of a Sunday
and began searching through those bushes to see if they could find anything, but a kind of
a turkey-cock came up out of the stones and drove them away.'

'There was another old woman,' said the man of the house, 'who tried to take down her fortune
into her stomach. She was near death, and she was all day stretched in her bed at the corner
of the fire. One day when the girl was tinkering about, the old woman rose up and got ready
a little skillet that was near the hob and put something into it and put it down by the fire,
and the girl watching her all the time under her oxter, not letting on she seen her at all.
When the old woman lay down again the girl went over to put on more sods on the fire, and she
got a look into the skillet, and what did she see but sixty sovereigns. She knew well what
the old woman was striving to do, so she went out to the dairy and she got a lump of fresh
butter and put it down into the skillet, when the woman didn't see her do it at all. After
a bit the old woman rose up and looked into the skillet, and when she saw the froth of the
butter she thought it was the gold that was melted. She got back into her bed--a dark place,
maybe--and she began sipping and sipping the butter till she had the whole of it swallowed.
Then the girl made some trick to entice the skillet away from her, and she found the sixty
sovereigns in the bottom and she kept them for herself.'

By this time it was late, and the old woman brought over a mug of milk and a piece of bread
to Darby at the settle, and the people gathered at their table for their supper; so I went
into the little room at the end of the cottage where I am given a bed.

When I came into the kitchen in the morning, old Darby was still asleep on the settle, with
his coat and trousers over him, a red night-cap on his head, and his half-bred terrier, Jess,
chained with a chain he carries with him to the leg of the settle.

'That's a poor way to lie on the bare board,' said the woman of the house, when she saw me
looking at him; 'but when I filled a sack with straw for him last night he wouldn't have it
at all.'

While she was boiling some eggs for my breakfast, Darby roused up from his sleep, pulled on
his trousers and coat, slipped his feet into his boots and started off, when he had eaten a
few mouthfuls, for another house where he is known, some five miles away.

Afterwards I went out on the cnuceen, a little hill between this cottage and the sea, to watch
the people gathering carragheen moss, a trade which is much followed in this district during
the spring tides of summer. I lay down on the edge of the cliff, where the heathery hill comes
to an end and the steep rocks begin. About a mile to the west there was a long headland, 'Feakle
Callaigh' ('The Witch's Tooth '), covered with mists, that blew over me from time to time with
a swish of rain, followed by sunshine again. It is unthinkable that a book like this should appear
in the Germany of to-day. It will be worth your while giving it to your boy to find out why.

*
* * * *

Since the practice of writing first novels is becoming increasingly popular with young authors
it was inevitable that a "First Novel Library" should find its way on to the market. Whether
the classification is to be construed as an appeal for forbearance
for the shortcomings of the neophyte, or as a warning which a considerate
publisher feels is due to the public, is not for me to say.

But the policy of charging six shillings for these maiden efforts--all that is required of us
for the mature masterpieces of our MAURICE HEWLETTS and ARNOLD BENNETTS--is open to question.
 A little further
on I met Danny-boy and we sat down to talk.

'Do you see that sandy head?' he said, pointing out to the east, 'that is called the Stooks
of the Dead Women; for one time a boat came ashore there with twelve dead women on board her,
big ladies with green dresses and gold rings, and fine jewelleries, and a dead harper or fiddler
along with them. Then there are graves again in the little hollow by the cnuceen, and what
we call them is the Graves of the Sailors; for some sailors, Greeks or great strangers, were
washed in there a hundred years ago, and it is there that they were buried.'

Then we began talking of the carragheen he had gathered and the spring tides that would come
again during the summer. I took out my diary to tell him the times of the moon, but he would
hardly listen to me. When I stopped, he gave his ass a cut with his stick, 'Go on now,' he
said; 'I wouldn't believe those almanacs at all; they do not tell the truth about the moon.'

The greatest event in West Kerry is the horse-fair, known as Puck Fair, which is held in August.
If one asks anyone, many miles east or west of Killorglin, when he reaped his oats or sold
his pigs or heifers, he will tell you it was four or five weeks, or whatever it may be, before
or after Puck. On the main roads, for many days past, I have been falling in with tramps and
trick characters of all kinds, sometimes single and sometimes in parties of four or five, and
as I am on the roads a great deal I have often met the same persons several days in succession--one
day perhaps at Ballinskelligs, the next day at Feakle Callaigh, and the third in the outskirts
of Killorglin.

Yesterday cavalcades of every sort were passing from the west with droves of horses, mares,
jennets, foals and asses, with their owners going after them in flat or railed carts, or riding
on ponies.

The men of this house--they are going to buy a horse--went to the fair last night, and I followed
at an early hour in the morning. As I came near Killorglin the road was much blocked by the
latest sellers pushing eagerly forward, and early purchasers who were anxiously leading off
their young horses before the roads became dangerous from the crush of drunken drivers and riders.

Just outside the town, near the first public-house, blind beggars were kneeling on the pathway,
praying with almost Oriental volubility for the souls of anyone who would throw them a coin.

'May the Holy Immaculate Mother of Jesus Christ,' said one of them, 'intercede for you in the
hour of need. Relieve a poor blind creature, and may Jesus Christ relieve yourselves in the
hour of death. May He have mercy, I'm saying, on your brothers and fathers and sisters for
evermore.'

Further on stalls were set out with cheap cakes and refreshments, and one could see that many
houses had been arranged to supply the crowds who had come in. Then I came to the principal
road that goes round the fair-green, where there was a great concourse of horses, trotting
and walking and galloping; most of them were of the cheaper class of animal, and were selling,
apparently to the people's satisfaction, at prices that reminded one of the time when fresh
meat was sold for threepence a pound. At the further end of the green there were one or two
rough shooting galleries, and a number of women--not very rigid, one could see--selling, or
appearing to sell, all kinds of trifles: a set that come in, I am told, from towns not far
away. At the end of the green I turned past the chapel, where a little crowd had just carried
in a man who had been killed or badly wounded by a fall from a horse, and went down to the
bridge of the river, and then back again into the main slope of the town. Here there were a
number of people who had come in for amusement only, and were walking up and down, looking
at each other--a crowd is as exciting as champagne to these lonely people, who live in long
glens among the mountains--and meeting with cousins and friends. Then, in the three-cornered
space in the middle of the town, I came on Puck himself a magnificent he-goat (Irish puc),
raised on a platform twenty feet high, and held by a chain from each horn, with his face down
the road. He is kept in this position, with a few cabbages to feed on, for three days, so that
he may preside over the pig-fair and the horse-fair and the day of winding up.

At the foot of this platform, where the crowd was thickest, a young ballad-singer was howling
a ballad in honour of Puck, making one think of the early Greek festivals, since the time of
which, it is possible, the goat has been exalted yearly in Killorglin.

The song was printed on a green slip by itself. It ran:

  A NEW SONG ON THE GREAT PUCK FAIR.

  By JOHN PURCELL.

  All young lovers that are fond of sporting,
  pay attention for a while,
  I will sing you the praises of Puck Fair,
  and I'm sure it will make you smile;
  Where the lads and lassies coming gaily to Killorglin can be seen,
  To view the Puck upon the stage, as our hero dressed in green.

  Chorus.

  And hurra for the gallant Puck so gay,
  For he is a splendid one
  Wind and rain don't touch his tail,
  For his hair is thirty inches long.

  Now it is on the square he's erected with all colours grand and gay;
  There's not a fair throughout Ireland, but Puck Fair it takes the sway,
  Where you see the gamblers in rotation, trick--o'-the-loop and
      other games,
  The ballad-singers and the wheel-of-fortune and the shooting-gallery
      for to take aim.

  Chorus.

  Where is the tyrant dare oppose it?
  Our old customs we will hold up still,
  And I think we will have another--
  That is, Home Rule and Purchase Bill.

  Now, all young men that are not married,
  next Shrove can take a wife,
  For before next Puck Fair we will have Home Rule,
      and then you will be settled down in life.
  Now the same advice I give young girls for to get married and have pluck.
  Let the landlords see that you defy them when coming to Fair of Puck.

  Cead Mile Failte to the Fair of Puck.

When one makes the obvious elisions, the lines are not so irregular as they look, and are always
sung to a measure: yet the whole, in spite of the assonance, rhymes, and the 'colours grand
and gay,' seems pitifully remote from any good spirit of ballad-making.

Across the square a man and a woman, who had a baby tied on her back, were singing another
ballad on the Russian and Japanese War, in the curious method of antiphony that is still sometimes
heard in the back streets of Dublin. These are some of the verses:

Man.

  Now provisions are rising, 'tis sad for to state,
  The flour, tea and sugar, tobacco and meat;
  But, God help us I poor Irish, how must we stand the test

Ambo.

  If they only now stop the trade of commerce.

Woman.

  Now the Russians are powerful on sea and on land;
  But the Japs they are active, they will them command,
  Before this war is finished I have one word to say,

Ambo.

  There will be more shot and drowned than in the Crimea.

Man.

  Now the Japs are victorious up to this time,
  And thousands of Russians I hear they are dying.

Etc., etc.

And so it went on with the same alternation of the voices through seven or eight verses; and
it was curious to feel how much was gained by this simple variation of the voices.

When I passed back to the fair-green, I met the men I am staying with, and went off with them
under an archway, and into a back yard to look at a little two-year-old filly that they had
bought and left for the moment in a loose box with three or four young horses. She was prettily
and daintily shaped, but looked too light, I thought, for the work she will be expected to
do. As we came out again into the road, an old man was singing an out-spoken ballad on women
in the middle of the usual crowd. Just as we passed it came to a scandalous conclusion; and
the women scattered in every direction, shrieking with laughter and holding shawls over their
mouths.

At the corner we turned into a public-house, where there were men we knew, who had done their
business also; and we went into the little alcove to sit down quietly for a moment. 'What will
you take, sir,' said the man I lodge with, 'a glass of wine?'

I took beer and the others took porter; but we were only served after some little time, as
the house was thronged with people.

The men were too much taken up with their bargains and losses to talk much of other matters;
and before long we came out again, and the son of the house started homewards, leading the
new filly by a little halter of rope.

Not long afterwards I started also. Outside Killorglin rain was coming up over the hills of
Glen Car, so that there was a strained hush in the air, and a rich, aromatic smell coming from
the bog myrtle, or boggy shrub, that grows thickly in this place. The strings of horses and
jennets scattered over the road did not keep away a strange feeling of loneliness that seems
to hang over this brown plain of bog that stretches from Carrantuohull to Cuchulain's House.

Before I reached the cottage dense torrents of rain were closing down through the glens, and
driving in white sheets between the little hills that are on each side of the way.

One morning in autumn I started in a local train for the first stage of my journey to Dublin,
seeing the last of Macgillicuddy's Reeks, that were touched with snow in places, Dingle Bay
and the islands beyond it. At a little station where I changed trains, I got into a carriage
where there was a woman with her daughter, a girl of about twenty, who seemed uneasy and distressed.
Soon afterwards, when a collector was looking at our tickets, I called out that mine was for
Dublin, and as soon as he got out the woman came over to me.

'Are you going to Dublin?' she said.

I told her I was.

'Well,' she went on, 'here is my daughter going there too; and maybe you'd look after her,
for I'm getting down at the next station. She is going up to a hospital for some little complaint
in her ear, and she has never travelled before, so that she's lonesome in her mind.'

I told her I would do what I could, and at the next station I was left alone with my charge,
and one other passenger, a returned American girl, who was on her way to Mallow, to get the
train for Queenstown. When her mother was lost sight of the young girl broke out into tears,
and the returned American and myself had trouble to quiet her.

'Look at me,' said the American. 'I'm going off for ten years to America, all by myself, and
I don't care a rap.'

When the girl got quiet again, the returned American talked to me about scenery and politics
and the arts--she had been seen off by her sisters in bare feet, with shawls over their heads--and
the life of women in America.

At several stations girls and boys thronged in to get places for Queenstown, leaving parties
of old men and women wailing with anguish on the platform. At one place an old woman was seized
with such a passion of regret, when she saw her daughters moving away from her for ever, that
she made a wild rush after the train and when I looked out for a moment I could see her writhing
and struggling on the platform, with her hair over her face, and two men holding her by the arms.

Two young men had got into our compartment for a few stations only, and they looked on with
the greatest satisfaction.

'Ah,' said one of them, 'we do have great sport every Friday and Saturday, seeing the old women
howling in the stations.'

When we reached Dublin I left my charge for a moment to see after my baggage, and when I came
back I found her sitting on a luggage barrow, with her package in her hand, crying with despair
because several cabmen had refused to let her into their cabs, on the pretext that they dreaded
infection.

I could see they were looking out for some rich tourist with his trunks, as a more lucrative
fare; so I sent for the head-porter, who had charge of the platform. When the porter arrived
we chose a cab, and I saw my charge driven off to her hospital, sitting on the front seat,
with her handkerchief to her eyes.

For the last few days--I am staying in the Kerry cottage I have spoken of already--the people
have been talking of horse-races that were to be held on the sand, not far off and this morning
I set out to see them with the man and woman of the house and two of their neighbours. Our
way led through a steep boreen for a quarter of a mile to the edge of the sea, and then along
a pathway between the cliffs and a straight grassy hill. What I cannot convey to you is that
secret of Mrs. WHARTON'S that enables her by some exquisitely right word or phrase so to illuminate
a scene that you see it as though by an inspiration of your own,
and feel that thus and thus did the thing in fact happen. He told
me the whole story, slightly familiarized in detail, but not very different from the version
everyone knows. A little further on he pointed across the sea to our left--just beyond the
strand where the races were to be run--to a neck of sand where, he said, Oisin was called away
to the Tir-na-nOg.

