   after a good deal of consideration, I have determined to
   send you the enclosed. I do so because I have made it a
   rule never to receive an accusation against one of my
   clergy without sending it to the person accused. You will,
   of course, perceive that it alludes to some matter which
   lies outside of my control and right of inquiry; but
   perhaps you will allow me, as a friend, to suggest to you
   that it is always well for a parish clergyman to avoid
   controversy and quarrel with his neighbours; and that it
   is especially expedient that he should be on good terms
   with those who have influence in his parish. Perhaps
   you will forgive me if I add that a spirit of pugnacity,
   though no doubt it may lead to much that is good, has its
   bad tendencies if not watched closely.

   Pray remember that Lord Trowbridge is a worthy man, doing
   his duty on the whole well; and that his position, though
   it be entitled to no veneration, is entitled to much
   respect. If you can tell me that you will feel no grudge
   against him for what has taken place, I shall be very
   happy.

   You will observe that I have been careful that this letter
   shall have no official character.

   Yours very faithfully,

   &c., &c., &c.

The letter was answered that evening, but before the answer was written, the Marquis of Trowbridge
was discussed between the husband and wife, not in complimentary terms. "If you are in case to
fear betrayal, it may well be, my friends. As I crossed the bridge over the Metauro and took
the path that leads hither, my eyes were caught by a crimson light shining from a tangle of
bushes by the roadside.

"My dear girl," said Fenwick, "what can you expect from an ass but his ears?"

"I don't expect downright slander from such a man as the Marquis of Trowbridge, and if I were
you I should tell the bishop so."

"I shall tell him nothing of the kind. I shall write about the Marquis with the kindliest feelings."

"But you don't feel kindly?"

"Yes, I do. The poor old idiot has nobody to keep him right, and does the best he can according
to his lights. I have no doubt he thinks that I am everything that is horrid. I am not a bit
angry with him, and would be as civil to him to-morrow as my nature would allow me, if he would
only be civil to me."

Then he wrote his letter which will complete the correspondence, and which he dated for the
following day:--

   Bullhampton Vicarage, Oct. 23, 186--.

   MY DEAR LORD BISHOP,

   I return the Marquis's letter with many thanks. I can
   assure you that I take in proper spirit your little hints
   as to my pugnacity of disposition, and will endeavour
   to profit by them. My wife tells me that I am given to
   combativeness, and I have no doubt that she is right.

   As to Lord Trowbridge, I can assure your lordship that I
   will not bear any malice against him, or even think ill of
   him because of his complaint. He and I probably differ in
   opinion about almost everything, and he is one of those
   who pity the condition of all who are so blinded as to
   differ from him. The next time that I am thrown into his
   company I shall act exactly as though no such letter had
   been written, and as if no such meeting had taken place as
   that which he describes.

   I hope I may be allowed to assure your lordship, without
   any reference to my motives for keeping it, that I shall
   be very slow to give up a living in your lordship's
   diocese. As your letter to me is unofficial,--and I thank
   you heartily for sending it in such form,--I have ventured
   to reply in the same strain.

   I am, my dear Lord Bishop,
   Your very faithful servant,

   FRANCIS FENWICK.

"There," said he, as he folded it, and handed it to his wife, "I shall never see the remainder
of the series. I would give a shilling to know how the bishop gets out of it in writing to
the Marquis, and half-a-crown to see the Marquis's rejoinder." The reader shall be troubled
with neither, as he would hardly price them so high as did the Vicar. The bishop's letter really
contained little beyond an assurance on his part that Mr. Fenwick had not meant anything wrong,
and that the matter was one with which he, the bishop, had no concern; all which was worded
with most complete episcopal courtesy. The rejoinder of the Marquis was long, elaborate, and
very pompous. He did not exactly scold the bishop, but he expressed very plainly his opinion
that the Church of England was going to the dogs, because a bishop had not the power of utterly
abolishing any clergyman who might be guilty of an offence against so distinguished a person
as the Marquis of Trowbridge.

But what was to be done about Carry Brattle? Mrs. Fenwick, when she had expressed her anger
against the Marquis, was quite ready to own that the matter of Carry's position was to them
of much greater moment than the wrath of the peer. How were they to put out their hands and
save that brand from the burning? Fenwick, in his ill-considered zeal, suggested that she might
be brought to the Vicarage; but his wife at once knew that such a step would be dangerous in
every way. How could she live, and what would she do? And what would the other servants think
of it?

"Why would the other servants mind it?" asked Fenwick. But his wife on such a matter could
have a way of her own, and that project was soon knocked on the head. No doubt her father's
house was the proper place for her, but then her father was so dour a man.

"Upon my word," said the Vicar, "he is the only person in the world of whom I believe myself
to be afraid. When I get at him I do not speak to him as I would to another; and of course
he knows it."

Nevertheless, if anything was to be done for Carry Brattle, it seemed as though it must be
done by her father's permission and assistance. "There can be no doubt that it is his duty,"
said Mrs. Fenwick.

"I will not say that as a certainty," said the husband. "There is a point at which, I presume,
a father may be justified in disowning a child. The possession of such a power, no doubt, keeps
others from going wrong. What one wants is that a father should be presumed to have the power;
but that when the time comes, he should never use it. It is the comfortable doctrine which
we are all of us teaching;--wrath, and abomination of the sinner, before the sin; pardon and
love after it. GONZAGA THE INSIDIOUS

VIII. AMONG THE DREGS OF WINE

IX. THE "TRATTA DI CORDE"

X. THE BRAYING OF AN ASS

XI. WANDERING KNIGHTS

XII. THE FOOL'S INQUISITIVENESS

XIII. GIAN MARIA MAKES A VOW

XIV. FORTEMANI DRINKS WATER

XV. THE MERCY OF FRANCESCO

XVI. GONZAGA UNMASKS

XVII. THE ENEMY

XVIII. TREACHERY

XIX. PLOT AND COUNTERPLOT

XX. THE LOVERS

XXI.

THE PENITENT

XXII. A REVELATION

XXIII. IN THE ARMOURY TOWER

XXIV. THE INTERRUPTED MASS

XXV. THE CAPITULATION OF ROCCALEONE

CHAPTER I. VOX POPULI

From the valley, borne aloft on the wings of the evening breeze, rose faintly the tolling of an Angelus
bell, and in a goat-herd's hut on the heights above stood six men with heads uncovered and bowed,
obeying its summons to evening prayer. A brass lamp, equipped with three beaks, swung from the grimy
ceiling, and, with more smoke than flame, shed an indifferent light,
and yet a more indifferent smell, throughout the darkening hovel.
But it sufficed at least to reveal in the accoutrements and trappings
of that company a richness that was the more striking by contrast
with the surrounding squalor.

As the last stroke of the Ave Maria
faded on the wind that murmured plaintively through the larches of
the hillside, they piously crossed themselves, and leisurely resuming
their head-gear, they looked at one another with questioning glances.
Yet before any could voice the inquiry that was in the minds of all,
a knock fell upon the rotten timbers of the door.

"At last!" exclaimed
old Fabrizio da Lodi, in a voice charged with relief, whilst a younger
man of good shape and gay garments strode to the door in obedience
to Fabrizio's glance, and set it wide.

Across the threshold stepped
a tall figure under a wide, featherless hat, and wrapped in a cloak
which he loosened as he entered, revealing the very plainest of raiment
beneath. A leather hacketon was tightened at the waist by a girdle
of hammered steel, from which depended on his left a long sword with
ringed, steel quillons, whilst from behind his right hip peeped the
hilt of a stout Pistoja dagger. His hose of red cloth vanished into
boots of untanned leather, laced in front and turned down at the knees,
and completed in him the general appearance of a mercenary in time
of peace, in spite of which the six nobles, in that place of paradoxes,
bared their heads anew, and stood in attitudes of deferential attention.

He
paused a moment to throw off his cloak, of which the young man who
had admitted him hastened to relieve him as readily as if he had been
born a servitor. He next removed his hat, and allowed it to remain
slung from his shoulders, displaying, together with a still youthful
countenance of surpassing strength and nobility, a mane of jet-black
hair coiffed in a broad net of gold thread--the only article of apparel
that might have suggested his station to be higher than at first had
seemed.

He stepped briskly to the coarse and grease-stained table,
about which the company was standing, and his black eyes ran swiftly
over the faces that confronted him.

"Sirs," he said at last, "I am
here. My horse went lame a half-league beyond Sant' Angelo, and I
was constrained to end the journey on foot."
Before they were far from the house Gilmore had changed the conversation and fallen back upon
his own sorrows. He had not answered Mary's letter, and now declared that he did not intend
to do so. What could he say to her? He could not write and profess friendship; he could not
offer her his congratulations; he could not belie his heart by affecting indifference. She
had thrown him over, and now he knew it. Of what use would it be to write to her and tell her
that she had made him miserable for ever? "I shall break up the house and get away," said he.

"Don't do that rashly, Harry. There can be no spot in the world in which you can be so useful
as you are here."

"All my usefulness has been dragged out of me. I don't care about the place or about the people.
I am ill already, and shall become worse. I think I will go abroad for four or five years.
I've an idea I shall go to the States."

"You'll become tired of that, I should think."

"Of course I shall. Everything is tiresome to me. I don't think anything else can be so tiresome
as my uncle, and yet I dread his leaving me,--when I shall be alone. I suppose if one was out
among the Rocky Mountains, one wouldn't think so much about it."

"Atra Cura sits behind the horseman," said the Vicar. "I don't know that travelling will do
it. One thing certainly will do it."

"And what is that?"

"Hard work. Some doctor told his patient that if he'd live on half-a-crown a day and earn it,
he'd soon be well. I'm sure that the same prescription holds good for all maladies of the mind.
You can't earn the half-crown a day, but you may work as hard as though you did."

"What shall I do?"

"Read, dig, shoot, look after the farm, and say your prayers. Don't allow yourself time for
thinking."

"It's a fine philosophy," said Gilmore, "but I don't think any man ever made himself happy
by it. I'll leave you now."

"I'd go and dig, if I were you," said the Vicar.

"Perhaps I will. Do you know, I've half an idea that I'll go to Loring."

"What good will that do?"

"I'll find out whether this man is a blackguard. I believe he is. My uncle knows something
about his father, and says that a bigger scamp never lived."

"I don't see what good you can do, Harry," said the Vicar. And so they parted.

Fenwick was about half a mile from the mill when Gilmore left him, and he wished that it were
a mile and a half. He knew well that an edict had gone forth at the mill that no one should
speak to the old man about his daughter. With the mother the Vicar had often spoken of her
lost child, and had learned from her how sad it was to her that she could never dare to mention
Carry's name to her husband. He had cursed his child, and had sworn that she should never more
have part in him or his. She had brought sorrow and shame upon him, and he had cut her off
with a steady resolve that there should be no weak backsliding on his part. Those who knew
him best declared that the miller would certainly keep his word, and hitherto no one had dared
to speak of the lost one in her father's hearing. All this Mr. Fenwick knew, and he knew also
that the man was one who could be very fierce in his anger. He had told his wife that old Brattle
was the only man in the world before whom he would be afraid to speak his mind openly, and
in so saying he had expressed a feeling that was very general throughout all Bullhampton. Mr.
Puddleham was a very meddlesome man, and he had once ventured out to the mill to say a word,
not indeed about Carry, but touching some youthful iniquity of which Sam was supposed to have
been guilty. He never went near the mill again, but would shudder and lift up his hands and
his eyes when the miller's name was mentioned. It was not that Brattle used rough language,
or became violently angry when accosted; but there was a sullen sternness about the man, and
a capability of asserting his own mastery and personal authority, which reduced those who attacked
him to the condition of vanquished combatants, and repulsed them, so that they would retreat
as beaten dogs. Mr. Fenwick, indeed, had always been well received at the mill. The women of
the family loved him dearly, and took great comfort in his visits. From his first arrival in
the parish he had been on intimate terms with them, though the old man had never once entered
his church. Brattle himself would bear with him more kindly than he would with his own landlord,
who might at any day have turned him out of his holding. But even Fenwick had been so answered
more than once as to have been forced to retreat with that feeling of having his tail, like
a cur, between his legs. "He can't eat me," he said to himself, as the low willows round the
mill came in sight. When a man is reduced to that consolation, as many a man often is, he may
be nearly sure that he will be eaten.

When he got over the stile into the lane close to the mill-door, he found that the mill was
going. Gilmore had told him that it might probably be so, as he had heard that the repairs
were nearly finished. Fenwick was sure that after so long a period of enforced idleness Brattle
would be in the mill, but he went at first into the house and there found Mrs. Brattle and
Fanny. Even with them he hardly felt himself to be at home, but after a while managed to ask
a few questions about Sam. Sam had come back, and was now at work, but he had had some terribly
hard words with his father. The old man had desired to know where his son had been. Sam had
declined to tell, and had declared that if he was to be cross-questioned about his comings
and goings he would leave the mill altogether. His father had told him that he had better go.
Sam had not gone, but the two had been working on together since without interchanging a word.
"I want to see him especially," said Mr. Fenwick.

"You mean Sam, sir?" asked the mother.

"No; his father. I will go out into the lane, and perhaps Fanny will ask him to come to me."
Mrs. Brattle immediately became dismayed by a troop of fears, and looked up into his face with
soft, supplicating, tearful eyes. So much of sorrow had come to her of late! "There is nothing
wrong, Mrs. Brattle," he said.

"I thought perhaps you had heard something of Sam."

"Nothing but what has made me surer than ever that he had no part in what was done at Mr. Trumbull's
farm."

"Thank God for that!" said the mother, taking him by the hand. Then Fanny went into the mill,
and the Vicar followed her out of the house, on to the lane. He stood leaning against a tree
till the old man came to him. He then shook the miller's hand, and made some remark about the
mill. They had begun again that morning, the miller said. Sam had been off again, or they might
have been at work on yesterday forenoon.

"Do not be angry with him; he has been on a good work," said the Vicar.

"Good or bad, I know nowt of it," said the miller.

"I know, and if you wish I will tell you; but there is another thing I must say first. Come
a little way down the lane with me, Mr. Brattle."

The Vicar had assumed a tone which was almost one of rebuke,--not intending it, but falling
into it from want of histrionic power in his attempt to be bold and solemn at the same time.
The miller at once resented it. "Why should I come down the lane?" said he. "You're axing me
to come out at a very busy moment, Muster Fenwick."

"Nothing can be so important as that which I have to say. For the love of God, Mr. Brattle,--for
the love you bear your wife and children, endure with me for ten minutes." Then he paused,
and walked on, and Mr. Brattle was still at his elbow. "My friend, I have seen your daughter."

"Which daughter?" said the miller, arresting his step.

"Your daughter Carry, Mr. Brattle." Then the old man turned round and would have hurried back
to the mill without a word; but the Vicar held him by his coat. "If I have ever been a friend
to you or yours listen to me now one minute."

"Do I come to your house and tell you of your sorrows and your shame? Let me go!"

"Mr. Brattle, if you will stretch forth your hand, you may save her. She is your own child--your
flesh and blood. Think how easy it is for a poor girl to fall,--how great is the temptation
and how quick, and how it comes without knowledge of the evil that is to follow! How small
is the sin, and how terrible the punishment! Your friends, Mr. Brattle, have forgiven you worse
sins than ever she has committed."

"I never shamed none of them," said he, struggling on his way back to the mill.

"It is that, then;--your own misfortune and not the girl's sin that would harden your heart
against your own child? You will let her perish in the streets, not because she has fallen,
but because she has hurt you in her fall! Is that to be a father? Is that to be a man? Mr.
Brattle, think better of yourself, and dare to obey the instincts of your heart."

But by this time the miller had escaped, and was striding off in furious silence to the mill.
The Vicar, oppressed by a sense of utter failure, feeling that his interference had been absolutely
valueless, that the man's wrath and constancy were things altogether beyond his reach, stood
where he had been left, hardly daring to return to the mill and say a word or two to the women
there. But at last he did go back. He knew well that Brattle himself would not be seen in the
house till his present mood was over. After any encounter of words he would go and work in
silence for half a day, and would seldom or never refer again to what had taken place; he would
never, so thought the Vicar, refer to the encounter which had just taken place; but he would
remember it always, and it might be that he would never again speak in friendship to a man
who had offended him so deeply.

After a moment's thought he determined to tell the wife, and informed her and Fanny that he
had seen Carry over at Pycroft Common. The mother's questions as to what her child was doing,
how she was living, whether she were ill or well, and, alas! whether she were happy or miserable,
who cannot imagine?

"She is anything but happy, I fear," said Mr. Fenwick.

"My poor Carry!"

"I should not wish that she should be happy till she be brought back to the decencies of life.
What shall we do to bring her back?"

"Would she come if she were let to come?" asked Fanny.

"I believe she would. I feel sure that she would."

"And what did he say, Mr. Fenwick?" asked the mother. The Vicar only shook his head. "He's
very good; to me he's ever been good as gold. But, oh, Mr. Fenwick, he is so hard."

"He will not let you speak of her?"

"Never a word, Mr. Fenwick. He'd look at you, sir, so that the gleam of his eyes would fall
on you like a blow. I wouldn't dare;--nor yet wouldn't Fanny, who dares more with him than
any of us."

"If it'd serve her, I'd speak," said Fanny.

"But couldn't I see her, Mr. Fenwick? Couldn't you take me in the gig with you, sir? I'd slip
out arter breakfast up the road, and he wouldn't be no wiser, at least till I war back again.
He wouldn't ax no questions then, I'm thinking. Would he, Fan?"

"He'd ask at dinner; but if I said you were out for the day along with Mr. Fenwick, he wouldn't
say any more, maybe. He'd know well enough where you was gone to."

Mr. Fenwick said that he would think of it, and let Fanny know on the following Sunday. He
would not make a promise now, and at any rate he could not go before Sunday. He did not like
to pledge himself suddenly to such an adventure, knowing that it would be best that he should
first have his wife's ideas on the matter. Then he took his leave, and as he went out of the
house he saw the miller standing at the door of the mill. He raised his hand and said, "Good-bye,"
but the miller quickly turned his back to him and retreated into his mill.

As he walked up to his house through the village he met Mr. Puddleham. "So Sam Brattle is off
again, sir," said the minister.

"Off what, Mr. Puddleham?"

"Gone clean away. Out of the country."

"Who has told you that, Mr. Puddleham?"

"Isn't it true, sir? You ought to know, Mr. Fenwick, as you're one of the bailsmen."

"I've just been at the mill, and I didn't see him."

"I don't think you'll ever see him at the mill again, Mr. Fenwick; nor yet in Bullhampton,
unless the police have to bring him here."

"As I was saying, I didn't see him at the mill, Mr. Puddleham, because I didn't go in; but
he's working there at this moment, and has been all the day. He's all right, Mr. Puddleham.
You go and have a few words with him, or with his father, and you'll find they're quite comfortable
at the mill now."

"Constable Hicks told me that he was out of the country," said Mr. Puddleham, walking away
in considerable disgust.

Mrs. Fenwick's opinion was, upon the whole, rather in favour of the second expedition to Pycroft
Common, as she declared that the mother should at any rate be allowed to see her child. She
indeed would not submit to the idea of the miller's indomitable powers. If she were Mrs. Brattle,
she said, she'd pull the old man's ears, and make him give way.

"You go and try," said the Vicar.

On the Sunday morning following, Fanny was told that on Wednesday Mr. Fenwick would drive her
mother over to Pycroft Common. He had no doubt, he said, but that Carry would still be found
living with Mrs. Burrows. He explained that the old woman had luckily been absent during his
visit, but would probably be there when they went again. As to that they must take their chance.
And the whole plan was arranged. Mr. Fenwick was to be on the road in his gig at Mr. Gilmore's
gate at ten o'clock, and Mrs. Brattle was to meet him there at that hour.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MRS. BRATTLE'S JOURNEY.

Mrs. Brattle was waiting at the stile opposite to Mr. Gilmore's gate as Mr. Fenwick drove up
to the spot. No doubt the dear old woman had been there for the last half-hour, thinking that
the walk would take her twice as long as it did, and fearing that she might keep the Vicar
waiting. She had put on her Sunday clothes and her Sunday bonnet, and when she climbed up into
the vacant place beside her friend she found her position to be so strange that for a while
she could hardly speak. He said a few words to her, but pressed her with no questions, understanding
the cause of her embarrassment. He could not but think that of all his parishioners no two
were so unlike each other as were the miller and his wife. The one was so hard and invincible;--the
other so soft and submissive! Nevertheless it had always been said that Brattle had been a
tender and affectionate husband. By degrees the woman's awe at the horse and gig and strangeness
of her position wore off, and she began to talk of her daughter. She had brought a little bundle
with her, thinking that she might supply feminine wants, and had apologised humbly for venturing
to come so laden. "You are allers right, Captain Blunt, but I did not tax my mind to think when
I spoke them remarks," said Binks, deferentially.

The cruiser, however, seemed more communicative than the mate gave her credit for, and a moment after
the officer with the trumpet sang out,
"This is the United States ship 'Scourge,' from Port Royal, bound
on a cruise! Please report us."

And again, after a few words apparently
with the officer with the epaulets, the trumpet was raised to his
lips, and he asked, "Have you seen any vessels lately?" "Perhaps
if I'd brought a morsel of some'at to eat--"

"I don't think they're pressed in that way, Mrs. Brattle."

"Ain't they now? But it's a'most worse, Mr. Fenwick, when one thinks where it's to come from.
The Lord have mercy on her, and bring her out of it!"

"Amen," said the Vicar.

"And is she bright at all, and simple still? She was the brightest, simplest lass in all Bull'ompton,
I used to think. I suppose her old ways have a'most left her, Mr. Fenwick?"

"I thought her very like what she used to be."

"'Deed now, did you, Mr. Fenwick? And she wasn't mopish and slatternly like?"

"She was tidy enough. You wouldn't wish me to say that she was happy?"

"I suppose not, Mr. Fenwick. I shouldn't ought;--ought I, now? But, Mr. Fenwick, I'd give my
left hand she should be happy and gay once more. I suppose none but a mother feels it, but
the sound of her voice through the house was ever the sweetest music I know'd on. It'll never
have the same ring again, Mr. Fenwick."

He could not tell her that it would. That sainted sinner of whom he had reminded Mr. Puddleham,
though she had attained to the joy of the Lord,--even she had never regained the mirth of her
young innocence. There is a bloom on the flower which may rest there till the flower has utterly
perished, if the handling of it be sufficiently delicate;--but no care, nothing that can be
done by friends on earth, or even by better friendship from above, can replace that when once
displaced. The sound of which the mother was thinking could never be heard again from Carry
Brattle's voice. "If we could only get her home once more," said the Vicar, "she might be a
good daughter to you still."

"I'd be a good mother to her, Mr. Fenwick;--but I'm thinking he'll never have it so. I never
knew him to change on a thing like that, Mr. Fenwick. He felt it that keenly, it nigh killed
'im. Only that he took it out o' hisself in thrashing that wicked man, I a'most think he'd
a' died o' it."

