A PUBLISHER AND HIS FRIENDS

MEMOIR AND CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN MURRAY

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF THE HOUSE, 1768-1843

BY THE LATE SAMUEL SMILES, LL.D.

CONDENSED AND EDITED BY THOMAS MACKAY

WITH PORTRAITS

1911

PREFACE

When my Grandfather's Memoirs were published, twenty years ago, they met with a most favourable
and gratifying reception at the hands of the public. Interest was aroused by the struggle and
success of a man who had few advantages at the outset save his own shrewd sense and generous
nature, and who, moreover, was thrown on his own resources to fight the battle of life when
he was little more than a child.

The chief value of these volumes, however, consists in the fact that they supply an important,
if not an indispensable, chapter in the literary history of England during the first half of
the nineteenth century. "Believe me, I have carefully studied conspiracies and assemblages;
there are certain purely mechanical means which it is necessary to adopt. Follow my advice
here; I know a good deal of this sort of thing. They want something
more.

It may be admitted that a pious desire to do justice to the memory of John Murray the Second--"the
Anax of Publishers," as Byron called him--led to the inclusion in the original volumes of some
material of minor importance which may now well be dispensed with.

I find, however, that the work is still so often quoted and referred to that I have asked my
friend Mr. Thomas Mackay to prepare a new edition for the press. I am convinced that the way
in which he has discharged his task will commend itself to the reading public. He has condensed
the whole, has corrected errors, and has rewritten certain passages in a more concise form.

I desire to acknowledge my debt to him for what he has done, and to express a hope that the
public may extend a fresh welcome to "an old friend with a new face."

JOHN MURRAY.

December, 1910.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

JOHN MACMURRAY OR MURRAY

The first John Murray--An Officer of Marines--Retires from Active Service--His marriage--Correspondence
with William Falconer--Falconer's death--Murray purchases Sandby's business--John Murray's
first publications--His writings--Mr. Kerr--Thomas Cumming goes to Ireland on behalf of Murray--Prof.
J. Millar--Mr. Whitaker--Defence of Sir R. Gordon--Ross estate--His controversy with Mr. Mason--The
Edinburgh booksellers--Creech and Elliot--Dr. Cullen--The second John Murray--His education--Accident
to his eye--Illness and death of the elder John Murray

CHAPTER II

JOHN MURRAY (II.)--BEGINNING OF HIS PUBLISHING CAREER--ISAAC D'ISRAELI, ETC.

John Murray the Second--"The Anax of Publishers"--His start in business--Murray and Highley--Dissolution
of the partnership--Colman's "John Bull"--Mr. Joseph Hume--Archibald Constable--John Murray
a Volunteer--The D'Israeli family--Isaac D'Israeli's early works--"Flim-Flams"--Birth of Benjamin
D'Israeli--Projected periodical the "Institute"--The "Miniature"--Murray's acquaintance with
Canning and Frere

CHAPTER III

MURRAY AND CONSTABLE--HUNTER AND THE FORFARSHIRE LAIRDS--MARRIAGE OF JOHN MURRAY

Archibald Constable & Co.--Alexander Gibson Hunter--The Edinburgh Review--Murray's early associations
with Constable--Dispute between Longman and Constable--Murray appointed London Agent--He urges
reconciliation between Constable and Longman--Mr. Murray visits Edinburgh--Engaged to Miss
Elliot--Goes into Forfarshire--Rude Hospitality--Murray's marriage--The D'Israelis

CHAPTER IV

"MARMION"--CONSTABLES AND BALLANTYNES--THE "EDINBURGH REVIEW"

Murray's business prospects--Acquires a share of "Marmion"--Becomes London publisher of the
Edinburgh Review--Acquaintance with Walter Scott--Constable's money transactions--Murray's
remonstrance--He separates from Constable--The Ballantynes--Scott joins their printing business--Literary
themes

CHAPTER V

ORIGIN OF THE "QUARTERLY REVIEW"

Canning's early schemes for a Penny Newspaper--The Anti-Jacobin--The Edinburgh Review--John
Murray's letter to Mr. Canning--Walter Scott's assistance--Southey's letter to Scott--Review
of "Marmion" in the Edinburgh--Murray's conditions--Meeting with James Ballantyne at Ferrybridge--Visit
to Scott at Ashestiel--Letters to Scott--Scott's letters to Murray, Ellis, and Gifford on the
Quarterly--Arrangements for the first number--Articles by Scott--James Mill--Mrs. Inchbald--Dr.
Thomas Young

CHAPTER VI

THE "QUARTERLY" LAUNCHED

Meeting of Murray and Ballantyne at Boroughbridge--Walter Scott's interest in the new Review--Publication
of the first number of the Quarterly --Scott's proposed "Secret History of the Court of James
I."--Portcullis copies--"Old English Froissart"--Opinions of the Quarterly--Scott's energy
and encouragement--Murray's correspondence with Mr. Stratford Canning--Murray's energy--Leigh
Hunt--James Mill--Gifford's unpunctuality--Appearance of the second number--Mr. Canning's contributions--Appearance
of No. 3--Letters from Mr. Ellis to Isaac D'Israeli--John Barrow's first connection with the
Quarterly--Robert Southey--Appearance of No. 4

CHAPTER VII

CONSTABLE AND BALLANTYNE

Murray's and Ballantyne's joint enterprises--Financial difficulties--Murray's remonstrances--Ballantyne's
reckless speculations--And disregard of Murray's advice--Revival of Murray's business with
Constable--Publication of the "Lady of the Lake"--Murray excluded from his promised share of
it--Transfers his Edinburgh agency to Mr. William Blackwood--Publication of No. 5 of the Quarterly
--Southey's articles and books--Unpunctuality of the Review --Gifford's review of "The Daughters
of Isenberg"--His letter to Miss Palmer--Dispute between Murray and Gifford--Attacks on the
Edinburgh Review by the Quarterly--Murray's disapproval of them--The Ballantynes and Constables
applying for money--Nos. 8 and 9 of the Review--Southey's Publications--Letters from Scott--His
review of the "Curse of Kehama"--Southey's dependence on the Quarterly--His letter to Mr. Wynn

CHAPTER VIII

MURRAY AND GIFFORD--RUPTURE WITH CONSTABLE--PROSPERITY OF THE "QUARTERLY"

Increasing friendship between Murray and Gifford--Gifford's opinion of humorous articles--Mr.
Pillans--Gifford's feeble health--Murray's financial difficulties--Remonstrates with Constable--Correspondence
with and dissociation from Constable--Quarterly Review No. 12--Gifford's severe remarks on
Charles Lamb--His remorse--Quarterly Review No. 14--Murray's offer to Southey of 1,000 guineas
for his poem

CHAPTER IX

LORD BYRON'S WORKS, 1811 TO 1814

Lord Byron's first acquaintance with Mr. Murray--Mr. Dallas's offer to Cawthorn and Miller--Murray's
acceptance of "Childe Harold"--Byron's visits to Fleet Street--Murray's letters to Byron--Gifford's
opinion of the Poem--Publication of "Childe Harold"--Its immediate success--Byron's presentation
to the Prince of Wales--Murray effects a reconciliation between Byron and Scott--Letters to
and from Scott--Publication of "The Giaour," "Bride of Abydos" and "Corsair"--Correspondence
with Byron--"Ode to Napoleon"--"Lara" and "Jacqueline"

CHAPTER X

MR. MURRAY'S REMOVAL TO 50, ALBEMARLE STREET

Murray's removal to Albemarle Street--Miller's unfriendly behaviour--Progress of the Quarterly--Miscellaneous
publications --D'Israeli's "Calamities of Authors"--Letters from Scott and Southey--Southey's
opinions on the patronage of literature--Scott's embarrassments--Recklessness of the Ballantynes--Scott
applies to Murray for a loan--Publication of "Waverley"--Mystery of the authorship--Mr. Murray's
proposed trip to France--His letters to Mrs. Murray--Education of his son--Announcement of
Lord Byron's engagement--Mr. Murray's visit to Newstead Abbey--Murray in Edinburgh--Mr. William
Blackwood--Visit to Abbotsford--Letter to Lord Byron--Letters from Blackwood--The "Vision of
Don Roderick"

CHAPTER XI

MURRAY'S DRAWING-ROOM--BYRON AND SCOTT--WORKS PUBLISHED IN 1815

Murray's drawing-room in Albemarle Street--A literary centre--George Ticknor's account of it--Letter
from Gifford--Death of his housekeeper Nancy--First meeting of Byron and Scott--Recollections
of John Murray III.--Napoleon's escape from Elba--Waterloo--Mr. Blackwood's letter--Suppression
of an article written for the Edinburgh--Mr. Murray's collection of portraits of authors--Mr.
Scott's visit to Brussels, Waterloo, etc.--Mr. Murray's visit to Paris--Return home--Important
diplomatic correspondence offered by Miss Waldie--Miss Austen--"Emma"--Mr. Malthus's works--Letters
from W. Scott

CHAPTER XII

VARIOUS PUBLICATIONS--CHARLES MATURIN--S.T. COLERIDGE--LEIGH HUNT

Charles Maturin--His early career--His early publications--And application to W. Scott--Performance
of "Bertram" at Drury Lane--Published by Murray--"Manuel, a Tragedy"--Murray's letter to Byron--Death
of Maturin--S.T. Coleridge--Correspondence about his translation of "Faust"--"Glycine," "Remorse,"
"Christabel," "Zapolya," and other works--Further correspondence--Leigh Hunt--Asked to contribute
to the Quarterly--"Story of Rimini"--Murray's letters to Byron and Hunt--Negotiations between
Murray and Leigh Hunt

CHAPTER XIII

THOMAS CAMPBELL--JOHN CAM HOBHOUSE--J.W. CROKER--JAMES HOGG, ETC.

Thomas Campbell--His early works--Acquaintance with Murray--"Selections from the British Poets"--Letters
to Murray--Proposed Magazine--And Series of Ancient Classics--Close friendship between Campbell
and Murray--Murray undertakes to publish the "Selections from British Poets"--Campbell's explanation
of the work--"Gertrude of Wyoming"--Scott reviews Campbell's poems in the Quarterly--Campbell's
Lectures at the Royal Institution--Campbell's satisfaction with Murray's treatment of him--"Now
Barabbas was a publisher"--Increase of Murray's business--Dealings with Gifford--Mr. J.C. Hobhouse--His
"Journey to Albania"--Isaac D'Israeli's "Character of James I."--Croker's "Stories for Children"--The
division of profits--Sir John Malcolm--Increasing number of poems submitted to Mr. Murray--James
Hogg--His works--And letters to Murray--The "Repository"--Correspondence with Murray--Hogg
asks Murray to find a wife for him

CHAPTER XIV

LORD BYRON'S DEALINGS WITH MR. MURRAY--continued

Lord Byron's marriage--Letters from Mr. Murray during the honeymoon--Mr. Fazakerly's interview
with Bonaparte--Byron's pecuniary embarrassments--Murray's offers of assistance--"Siege of
Corinth"--"Parisina"--Byron refuses remuneration--Pressed to give the money to Godwin, Maturin,
and Coleridge--Murray's remonstrance --Gifford's opinion of the "Siege of Corinth" and Mr.
D'Israeli's --Byron leaves England--Sale of his Library--The "Sketch from Private Life"--Mr.
Sharon Turner's legal opinion--Murray's letter on the arrival of the MS. of "Childe Harold,"
Canto III. 

Well, I accept," said Cinq-Mars; "and my sacrifice herein, dear friend,
is greater than yours."

Then turning toward the assembly:

"Gentlemen, I see in you the last men of France, for after the Montmorencys and the Soissons, you
alone dare lift a head free and worthy of our old liberty. If Richelieu triumph, the ancient
bases of the monarchy will crumble with us. The court will reign alone, in the place of the parliaments,
the old barriers, and at the same time the powerful supports of the royal authority. Let us be conquerors,
and France will owe to us the preservation of her ancient manners
and her time-honored guarantees.

And now, gentlemen, it were a pity to spoil the ball on this account.

You hear the music. The ladies await you. Let us go and dance."

"The Cardinal shall pay the fiddlers," added Gondi.

The young men applauded with a laugh; and all reascended to the ballroom
as lightly as they would have gone to the battlefield.

CHAPTER XXI

THE CONFESSIONAL

It was on the day following the assembly that had taken place in the house of Marion de Lorme. A thick
snow covered the roofs of Paris and settled in its large gutters and streets, where it arose in gray
heaps, furrowed by the wheels of carriages.

It was eight o'clock, and the night was dark.

The tumult of the city was silent on account of the thick carpet
the winter had spread for it, and which deadened the sound of the
wheels over the stones, and of the feet of men and horses.

In a narrow street that winds round the old church of St. Eustache, a man, enveloped in his
cloak, slowly walked up and down, constantly watching for the appearance of some one. He often
seated himself upon one of the posts of the church, sheltering himself from the falling snow
under one of the statues of saints which jutted out from the roof of the building, stretching
over the narrow path like birds of prey, which, about to make a stoop, have folded their wings.
Often, too, the old man, opening his cloak, beat his arms against
his breast to warm himself, or blew upon his fingers, ill protected
from the cold by a pair of buff gloves reaching nearly to the elbow.
At last he saw a slight shadow gliding along the wall.

"Ah, Santa
Maria! what villainous countries are these of the North!" said a woman's
voice, trembling. "Ah, the duchy of Mantua! would I were back there
again, Grandchamp!"

"Pshaw! don't speak so loud," said the old domestic,
abruptly. "The walls of Paris have Cardinalist ears, and more especially
the walls of the churches. Has your mistress entered? My master awaits
her at the door."

"Yes, yes; she has gone in."

"Be silent," said
Grandchamp. "The sound of the clock is cracked. That's a bad sign."

"That
clock has sounded the hour of a rendezvous." Lamb--Lord J. Russell--His
proposed History of Europe--Mr. James Morier's "Hajji Baba"--Letter of Mirza Abul Hassan--Mrs.
Markham's "History of England"--Allan Cunningham

CHAPTER XXIII

GIFFORD'S RETIREMENT FROM THE EDITORSHIP OF THE "QUARTERLY"--AND DEATH

Gifford's failing health--Difficulty of finding a successor--Barrow's assistance--Gifford's
letter to Mr. Canning--Irregularity of the numbers--Southey's views as to the Editorship--Gifford's
letter to Mr. Canning--Appointment of Mr. J.T. Coleridge--Murray's announcement of the appointment
to Gifford--Close of Mr. Gifford's career--His correspondence with Murray--Letter from Mr.
R. Hay to the present Mr. Murray about Gifford

CHAPTER XXIV

THE "REPRESENTATIVE"

Murray's desire to start a new periodical--Benjamin Disraeli--Projected morning paper--Benjamin
Disraeli's early career and writings--Letters to Murray about "Aylmer Papillon"--Benjamin Disraeli's
increasing intimacy with Murray--Origin of the scheme to start a daily paper--South American
speculation--Messrs. Powles--Agreement to start a daily paper--the Representative--Benjamin
Disraeli's journey to consult Sir W. Scott about the editorship--His letters to Murray--Visit
to Chiefswood --Progress of the negotiation-Mr. Lockhart's reluctance to assume the editorship--Letter
from Mr. I. D'Israeli to Murray--Mr. Lockhart's first introduction to Murray--His letter about
the editorship--Sir W. Scott's letter to Murray--Editorship of Quarterly offered to Lockhart--Murray's
letter to Sir W. Scott--Mr. Lockhart accepts the editorship of the Quarterly--Disraeli's activity
in promoting the Representative--His letters to Murray--Premises taken--Arrangements for foreign
correspondence--Letters to Mr. Maas--Engagement of Mr. Watts and Mr. S.C. Hall--Mr. Disraeli
ceases to take part in the undertaking--Publication of the Representative--Dr. Maginn--Failure
of the Representative--Effect of the strain on Murray's health--Letters from friends--The financial
crisis--Failure of Constable and Ballantyne--The end of the Representative--Coolness between
Murray and Mr. D'Israeli

CHAPTER XXV

MR. LOCKHART AS EDITOR OF THE "QUARTERLY"--HALLAM WORDSWORTH--DEATH OF CONSTABLE

The editorship of the Quarterly--Mr. Lockhart appointed--Letter from Sir W. Scott, giving his
opinion of Lockhart's abilities and character--Letters from Mr. Lockhart--Mr. Croker's article
on "Paroles d'un Croyant"--Charles Butler--Blanco White--Controversies, etc.--Wordsworth's
Works--Letter from Mr. Lockhart--Renewed intercourse between Murray and Constable

CHAPTER XXVI

SIR WALTER'S LAST YEARS

South American speculation--Captain Head, R.E.--His rapid rides across the Pampas--His return
home and publication of his work--Results of his mission--Mr. Disraeli and Mr. Powles--Letter
from Mr. B. Disraeli--Irving's "Life of Columbus"--His agent, Col. Aspinwall--Letter of warning
from Mr. Sharon Turner--Southey's opinion--"The Conquest of Granada"--Lockhart's and Croker's
opinions--The financial result of their publication--Correspondence between Irving and Murray--"Tales
of the Alhambra"--Murray's subsequent lawsuit with Bonn about the copyrights--Review of Hallam's
"Constitutional History" in the Quarterly--Mr. Hallam's remonstrance--Letter from Murray--Letter
from Mr. Mitchell--Southey's discontent--Sir W. Scott and Lockhart--Scott's articles for the
Quarterly--Sir H. Davy's "Salmonia"--Anecdote of Lord Nelson--The Duke of Wellington--Murray's
offer to Scott for a History of Scotland--Sale of Sir W. Scott's copyrights--Murray's offer
for "Tales of a Grandfather"--Scott's reply--Scott's closing years--Murray's resignation of
his one-fourth share of "Marmion"--Scott's last contributions to the Quarterly--His death--Mr.
John Murray's account of the Theatrical Fund Dinner

CHAPTER XXVII

NAPIER'S "PENINSULAR WAR"--CROKER'S "BOSWELL"--"THE FAMILY LIBRARY" ETC.

Napier's "History of the Peninsular War"--Origin of the work--Col. Napier's correspondence
with Murray--Publication of Vol. I.--Controversy aroused by it--Murray ceases to publish the
work--His letter to the Morning Chronicle--The Duke of Wellington's Despatches--Croker's edition
of "Boswell's Johnson"--Correspondence with Croker, Lockhart, etc.--Publication of the book--Its
value--Letter from Mrs. Shelley--Mr. Henry Taylor's "Isaac Comnenus"--"Philip van Artevelde"--"The
Family Library" and the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge--The progress of "The
Family Library"--Milman's "History of the Jews"--Controversy aroused by it--Opinion of the Jews

CHAPTER XXVIII

MOORE'S "LIFE OF BYRON"

Murray purchases the remainder of Byron's Poems--Leigh Hunt's "Recollections"--Moore selected
as the biographer of Byron--Collection of Letters and Papers--Lockhart and Scott's opinion
of the work--Publication of the first volume of Byron's "Life"--Mrs. Shelley's letter--Publication
of the second volume--Letters from Mrs. Somerville and Croker--Capt. Medwin's Conversations--Pecuniary
results of Lord Byron's "Life"--Reviews of Moore's works in the Quarterly--Moore on Editors--Complete
edition of "Byron's Works"--Letters from Countess Guiccioli and Sir R. Peel--Thorwaldsen's
statue of Lord Byron--Refused at Westminster Abbey, but erected in Trinity College Library,
Cambridge

MEMOIRS OF JOHN MURRAY

CHAPTER I

JOHN MACMURRAY OR MURRAY

The publishing house of Murray dates from the year 1768, in which year John MacMurray, a lieutenant
of Marines, having retired from the service on half-pay, purchased the bookselling business
of William Sandby, at the sign of the "Ship," No. 32, Fleet Street, opposite St. Dunstan's Church.

John MacMurray was descended from the Murrays of Athol. His uncle, Colonel Murray, was "out"
in the rising of 1715, under the Earl of Mar, served under the Marquis of Tullibardine, the
son of his chief, the Duke of Athol, and led a regiment in the abortive fight of Sheriffmuir.
After the rebellion Colonel Murray retired to France, where he served under the exiled Duke
of Ormonde, who had attached himself to the Stuart Court.

The Colonel's brother Robert followed a safer course. He prefixed the "Mac" to his name; settled
in Edinburgh; adopted the law as a profession, and became a Writer to the Signet. He had a
family of three daughters, Catherine, Robina, and Mary Anne; and two sons, Andrew and John.

John, the younger of Robert MacMurray's sons, was born at Edinburgh in 1745. After receiving
a good general education, he entered the Royal Marines under the special patronage of Sir George
Yonge, Bart., [Footnote: Sir George Yonge was Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, and subsequently
Secretary at War; he died in 1812.] a well-known official of the last century, and his commission
as second lieutenant was dated June 24, 1762. Peace was signed at the treaty of Paris in 1763,
and young MacMurray found himself quartered at Chatham, where the monotony of the life to a
young man of an active and energetic temperament became almost intolerable. He determined therefore
to retire on half-pay at the age of twenty-three, and become a London bookseller!

It is not improbable that he was induced to embark on his proposed enterprise by his recent
marriage with Nancy Wemyss, daughter of Captain Wemyss, then residing at Brompton, near Chatham.

While residing at Chatham, MacMurray renewed his acquaintance with William Falconer, the poet,
and author of "The Shipwreck," who, like himself, was a native of Edinburgh.

To this friend, who was then on the eve of sailing to India, he wrote:

BROMPTON, KENT, October 16, 1768.

DEAR WILL,

Since I saw you, I have had the intention of embarking in a scheme that I think will prove
successful, and in the progress of which I had an eye towards your participating. Mr. Sandby,
Bookseller, opposite St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet Street, has entered into company with Snow
and Denne, Bankers. I was introduced to this gentleman about a week ago, upon an advantageous
offer of succeeding him in his old business; which, by the advice of my friends, I propose
to accept. Now, although I have little reason to fear success by myself in this undertaking,
yet I think so many additional advantages would accrue to us both, were your forces and mine
joined, that I cannot help mentioning it to you, and making you the offer of entering into company.

He resigns to me the lease of the house, the goodwill, etc.; and I only take his bound stock,
and fixtures, at a fair appraisement, which will not amount to much beyond £400, and which,
if ever I mean to part with, cannot fail to bring in nearly the same sum. The shop has been
long established in the Trade; it retains a good many old customers; and I am to be ushered
immediately into public notice by the sale of a new edition of "Lord Lyttelton's Dialogues";
and afterwards by a like edition of his "History." These Works I shall sell by commission,
upon a certain profit, without risque; and Mr. Sandby has promised to continue to me, always,
his good offices and recommendations.

These are the general outlines; and if you entertain a notion that the conjunction will suit
you, advise me, and you shall be assumed upon equal terms; for I write to you before the affair
is finally settled; not that I shall refuse it if you don't concur (for I am determined on
the trial by myself); but that I think it will turn out better were we joined; and this consideration
alone prompts me to write to you. Many Blockheads in the Trade are making fortunes; and did
we not succeed as well as they, I think it must be imputed only to ourselves. Make Mrs. McMurray's
compliments and mine to Mrs. Falconer; we hope she has reaped much benefit from the saltwater
bath. Consider what I have proposed; and send me your answer soon. Be assured in the meantime,
that I remain, Dear Sir,

Your affectionate and humble servant,

JOHN McMURRAY.

P.S.--My advisers and directors in this affair have been Thomas Cumming, Esq., Mr. Archibald
Paxton, Mr. James Paterson of Essex House, and Messrs. J. and W. Richardson, Printers. These,
after deliberate reflection, have unanimously thought that I should accept Mr. Sandby's offer.

Falconer's answer to this letter has not been preserved. They now only spoke in whispers, and
each regarded his neighbor with distrust. Some withdrew; the meeting grew thinner. Marion
de Lorme repeated to every one that she would dismiss her servants, who alone could be suspected.
 Falconer intended to have prefixed some complimentary
lines to Mr. Murray to the third edition of "The Shipwreck," but they were omitted in the hurry
of leaving London and England for India.

Notwithstanding the failure of MacMurray to obtain the aid of Falconer in his partnership,
he completed alone his contract with Mr. Sandby. His father at Edinburgh supplied him with
the necessary capital, and he began the bookselling business in November 1768. He dropped the
prefix "Mac" from his surname; put a ship in full sail at the head of his invoices; and announced
himself to the public in the following terms:

"John Murray (successor to Mr. Sandby), Bookseller and Stationer, at No. 32, over against St.
Dunstan's Church, in Fleet Street, London, sells all new Books and Publications. Fits up Public
or Private Libraries in the neatest manner with Books of the choicest Editions, the best Print,
and the richest Bindings. Also, executes East India or foreign Commissions by an assortment
of Books and Stationary suited to the Market or Purpose for which it is destined; all at the
most reasonable rates."

Among the first books he issued were new editions of Lord Lyttelton's "Dialogues of the Dead,"
and of his "History of King Henry the Second," in stately quarto volumes, as well as of Walpole's
"Castle of Otranto." He was well supported by his friends, and especially by his old brother
officers, and we find many letters from all parts of the world requesting him to send consignments
of books and magazines, the choice of which was, in many cases, left entirely to his own discretion.
In 1769 he received a letter from General Sir Robert Gordon, then in India, who informed him
that he had recommended him to many of his comrades.

Sir R. Gordon to John Murray.

"Brigadier-General Wedderburn has not forgotten his old school-fellow, J. McMurray. Send me
British news, and inform me of all political and other affairs at home." [He also added that
Colonel Mackenzie, another old friend, is to be his patron.] "I hope," says Sir E. Gordon,
in another letter, "that you find more profit and pleasure from your new employment than from
that of the sword, which latter, you may remember, I endeavoured to dissuade you from returning
to; but a little trial, and some further experience, at your time of life, cannot hurt you....
My best compliments to Mrs. Murray, who I suppose will not be sorry for your laying aside the
wild Highland 'Mac' as unfashionable and even dangerous in the circuit of Wilkes's mob; but
that, I am convinced, was your smallest consideration."

The nature of Mr. Murray's business, and especially his consignments to distant lands, rendered
it necessary for him to give long credit, while the expense and the risk of bringing out new
books added a fresh strain on his resources. In these circumstances, he felt the need of fresh
capital, and applied to his friend Mr. William Kerr, Surveyor of the General Post Office for
Scotland, for a loan. Mr. Kerr responded in a kindly letter. Though he could not lend much
at the time, he sent Mr. Murray £150, "lest he might be prejudiced for want of it," and added
a letter of kind and homely advice.

In order to extend his business to better advantage, Mr. Murray endeavoured to form connections
with booksellers in Scotland and Ireland. In the first of these countries, as the sequel will
show, the firm established permanent and important alliances. To push the trade in Ireland
he employed Thomas Cumming, a Quaker mentioned in Boswell's "Life of Johnson," who had been
one of his advisers as to the purchase of Mr. Sandby's business.

Mr. T. Gumming to John Murray.

"On receipt of thine I constantly applied to Alderman Faulkener, and showed him the first Fable
of Florian, but he told me that he would not give a shilling for any original copy whatever,
as there is no law or even custom to secure any property in books in this kingdom [Ireland].
From him, I went directly to Smith and afterwards to Bradley, etc. They all gave me the same
answer.... Sorry, and very sorry I am, that I cannot send a better account of the first commission
thou hast favoured me with here. Thou may'st believe that I set about it with a perfect zeal,
not lessened from the consideration of the troubles thou hast on my account, and the favours
I so constantly receive from thee; nor certainly that my good friend Dr. Langhorne was not
altogether out of the question. None of the trade here will transport books at their own risque.
This is not a reading, but a hard-drinking city; 200 or 250 are as many as a bookseller, except
it be an extraordinary work indeed, ever throws off at an impression."

Mr. Murray not only published the works of others, but became an author himself. He wrote two
letters in the Morning Chronicle in defence of his old friend Colonel (afterwards Sir) Robert
Gordon, who had been censured for putting an officer under arrest during the siege of Broach,
in which Gordon had led the attack. The Colonel's brother, Gordon of Gordonstown, wrote to
Murray, saying, "Whether you succeed or not, your two letters are admirably written; and you
have obtained great merit and reputation for the gallant stand you have made for your friend."
The Colonel himself wrote (August 20,1774): "I cannot sufficiently thank you, my dear sir,
for the extraordinary zeal, activity, and warmth of friendship, with which you so strenuously
supported and defended my cause, and my honour as a soldier, when attacked so injuriously by
Colonel Stuart, especially when he was so powerfully supported."

Up to this time Mr. Murray's success had been very moderate. He had brought out some successful
works; but money came in slowly, and his chief difficulty was the want of capital. He was therefore
under the necessity of refusing to publish works which might have done something to establish
his reputation.

At this juncture, i.e. in 1771, an uncle died leaving a fortune of £17,000, of which Mr. Murray
was entitled to a fourth share. On the strength of this, his friend Mr. Kerr advanced to him
a further sum of £500. The additional capital was put into the business, but even then his
prosperity did not advance with rapid strides; and in 1777 we find him writing to his friend
Mr. Richardson at Oxford.

John Murray to Mr. Richardson. 

Laure dared not again speak to him.

While her waiting-woman had gone to find Grandchamp, the young and
trembling Marie with a timid hand had pushed open the folding-door
of the church.

She there found Cinq-Mars standing, disguised, and
anxiously awaiting her.

A curious controversy occurred in 1778 between Mr. Mason, executor of Thomas Gray the poet,
and Mr. Murray, who had published a "Poetical Miscellany," in which were quoted fifty lines
from three passages in Gray's works. But he is both!'"

Mr. Murray had considerable intercourse with the publishers of Edinburgh, among the chief of
whom were Messrs. Creech & Elliot, and by their influence he soon established a connection
with the professors of Edinburgh University. Creech, who succeeded Mr. Kincaid in his business
in 1773, occupied a shop in the Luckenbooths, facing down the High Street, and commanding a
prospect of Aberlady Bay and the north coast of Haddingtonshire. Being situated near the Parliament
House--the centre of literary and antiquarian loungers, as well as lawyers--Creech's place
of business was much frequented by the gossipers, and was known as Creech's Levee. Creech himself,
dressed in black-silk breeches, with powdered hair and full of humorous talk, was one of the
most conspicuous members of the group. He was also an author, though this was the least of
his merits. He was an appreciative patron of literature, and gave large sums for the best books
of the day.

Mr. Elliot, whose place of business was in the Parliament Close, and whose daughter subsequently
married Mr. Murray's son the subject of this biography, was a publisher of medical and surgical
works, and Mr. Murray was his agent for the sale of these in London. We find from Mr. Elliot's
letters that he was accustomed to send his parcels of books to London by the Leith fleet, accompanied
by an armed convoy. In June 1780 he wrote: "As the fleet sails this evening, and the schooner
carries 20 guns, I hope the parcel will be in London in four or five days"; and shortly afterwards:
"I am sending you four parcels of books by the Carran, which mounts 22 guns, and sails with
the Glasgow of 20 guns." The reason of the Edinburgh books being conveyed to London guarded
by armed ships, was that war was then raging, and that Spain, France, and Holland were united
against England. The American Colonies had also rebelled, and Paul Jones, holding their commission,
was hovering along the East Coast with three small ships of war and an armed brigantine. It
was therefore necessary to protect the goods passing between Leith and London by armed convoys.
Sometimes the vessels on their return were quarantined for a time in Inverkeithing Bay.

The first Mrs. Murray died, leaving her husband childless, and he married again. By his second
wife he had three sons and two daughters, two of the sons, born in 1779 and 1781 respectively,
died in infancy, while the third, John, born in 1778, is the subject of this Memoir. In 1782
he writes to his friend the Rev. John Whitaker: "We have one son and daughter, the son above
four years, and the daughter above two years, both healthy and good-natured."

In June 1782 Mr. Murray had a paralytic stroke, by which he, for a time, lost the use of his
left side, and though he shortly recovered, and continued his work as before, he was aware
of his dangerous position. To a friend going to Madeira in September 1791 he wrote: "Whether
we shall ever meet again is a matter not easily determined. The stroke by which I suffered
in 1782 is only suspended; it will be repeated, and I must fall in the contest."

In the meantime Mr. Murray made arrangements for the education of his son. He was first sent
for a year to the High School of Edinburgh. While there he lived with Mr. Robert Kerr, author
of several works on Chemistry and Natural History, published by Mr. Murray. Having passed a
year in Edinburgh, the boy returned to London, and after a time was sent to a school at Margate.
There he seems to have made some progress. To a friend Mr. Murray wrote: "He promises, I think,
to write well, although his master complains a little of his indolence, which I am afraid he
inherits from me. If he does not overcome it, it will overcome him." In a later letter he said:
"The school is not the best, but the people are kind to him, and his health leaves no alternative.
He writes a good hand, is fond of figures, and is coming forward both in Latin and French.
Yet he inherits a spice of indolence, and is a little impatient in his temper. His appearance--open,
modest, and manly--is much in his favour. He is grown a good deal, and left us for Margate
(after his holiday) as happy as could be expected."

