How little chance there will probably be for this same girl to do at home any serious work
in case she develops a talent for it. The home of the prosperous, energetic American woman
is pervaded by a spirit of eager and generally happy excitement. Good works and gay pleasures
fill its days in a wild jumble. There is little or no order, selection, or discretion discernible
in the result. "Something doing" all the time seems to be the motto, and to take part in this
headless procession of unrelated events becomes the first law of the household. The daughter
has been living an organized life in college. She wants to study or write, or do regular work
of some kind. But there is no order in the spirit of the place, no respect for order, no respect
for a regular occupation. "I cannot work at home"--one hears the cry often enough. It is not
always because of this atmosphere of helter-skelter activity. It is often because of something
worse,--an atmosphere of slothful, pleasure-loving indifference to activities of all kinds,
or one of tacit or expressed discontent with the burdens and the limitations which are an inescapable
part of the Business of Being a Woman.

The problems connected with a girl's desire to be of social service are even more difficult.
There is a curious blindness or indifference in our town and country districts to social needs.
There is still alive the notion that sending flowers and jellies to the hospital, distributing
old clothes wisely, and packing generous Christmas baskets meet all obligations. Social service--of
which one may, and generally does, hear a great deal in the women's clubs--is vaguely supposed
to be something which has to do with great cities and factory towns, not with the small community. We
have a right also to be free in our actions. We may go where we please, and do what ever we think
necessary for our own safety and happiness; provided we do not trespass
upon the rights of others; for it must be remembered that others have
the same rights as ourselves. There is the same need of industrial training,
of efficient schools, of books, of neighborliness, of innocent amusements, of finding opportunities
for the exceptional child, of looking after the adenoids and teeth, of segregating the tubercular,
of doing all the scores of social services in the small town as in the great. Work is really
more hopeful there because there is some possibility of knowing approximately all the cases,
which is never possible in the city. And yet how far from general it is to find anything like
organized efforts at real social service in the small community. If a girl serves in such a
community, it is because she has the parts of a pioneer--and few have.

It is not the girl who, having a home, yet is homeless, who is responsible for her situation.
Her necessity is to see herself acting as a responsible and useful factor in an intelligent
plan. If the family does not present itself to her as a grave, dignified undertaking on which
several persons dear to her have embarked, how can she be expected to tie to it? The old phrases
which she may hear now and then--"the honor of the family"--"duty to parents"--only savor of
cant to her. They have no pricking vitality in them. She gets no acute reaction from them.
She sees herself merely as an accident in an accidental group, headed nowhere in particular.

What it all amounts to is that the greatest art in the Woman's Business is using youth. It
is no easy matter. Youth is a terrible force, confident, selfish, unknowing. Rarely has it
real courage, real interest in aught but itself. It has all to learn, but it is youth, the
most beautiful and hopeful thing in life. And it is the thing upon which the full development
of life for a woman depends. She must have it always at her side, if she is to know her own
full meaning in the scheme of things. It is part of her tragedy that she fails so often to
understand how essential is youth to her as an individual, her happiness and her growth.

The fact that a woman is childless is no reason in the present world why she should be cut
off from the developing and ennobling association. Indeed, the childless woman of to-day, in
addition to her obligation to herself, has a peculiar obligation to society in the matter of
the friendless child.

CHAPTER VIII

THE CHILDLESS WOMAN AND THE FRIENDLESS CHILD

One of the first conclusions forced on a thoughtful unprejudiced observer of society is that
the major percentage of its pains and its vices result from a failure to make good connections.
Children pine and even die for fruit in the cities, while a hundred miles away thousands of
barrels of apples are rotting on the ground. Famine devastates one country, while the granaries
of another are bursting with food. Men and women drink themselves into the gutter from sheer
loneliness, while other men and women shrivel up in isolated comfort. One of the most pitiful
examples of this failure to connect is that of the childless woman and the friendless, uncared-for
child.

There never at any time in any country in the world's history existed so large a group of women
with whom responsibility and effort were a matter of choice, as exists to-day in the United
States. While a large number of these free women are devoting themselves whole-heartedly to
public service of the most intelligent and ingenious kind, the great majority recognize no
obligation to make any substantial return to society for its benefits. A small percentage of
these are self-supporting, but the majority are purely parasitical. Indeed, the heaviest burden
to-day on productive America, aside from the burden imposed by a vicious industrial system,
is that of its nonproductive women. They are the most demanding portion of our society. They
spend more money than any other group, are more insistent in their cry for amusement, are more
resentful of interruptions of their pleasures and excitements; they go to greater extremes
of indolence and of uneasiness.

The really serious side to the existence of this parasitical group is that great numbers of
other women, not free, forced to produce, accept their standards of life. We hear women, useful
women, everywhere talking about the desirability of not being obliged to do anything, commiserating
women who must work, commiserating those who have heavy household responsibilities, and by
the whole gist of their words and acts influencing those younger and less experienced than
themselves to believe that happiness lies in irresponsible living. 

Thus the exercise of rights guarantied by the constitution or political law, is called political
liberty. The free enjoyment of rights secured by the civil or municipal laws, is called civil liberty.
And freedom of religious opinion and worship is called religious liberty.

§10. Hence liberty itself is a natural right. The words right and liberty, however, have not the
same meaning.

We may have a right to a thing when we have not the liberty of using it. John has a pencil which
is justly his own; but James takes it from him by force. John's liberty
to enjoy the use of his pencil is lost, but his right to it remains.
James has no right to the use of the pencil, though he enjoys the
use of it. They plunge headlong into each new proposition
for pleasure or social service only to desert it as something more novel and exciting and,
for the instant, popular, appears. Steady, intelligent standing by an undertaking through its
ups and downs, its dull seasons and its unpopular phases, they are incapable of. Their efforts
have no relation to an intelligently conceived purpose. With them may be grouped those women
who, by their canonization of the unimportant, construct heavily burdened but utterly fruitless
lives. They laboriously pad out their days with trivial things, vanities, shams, and shadows,
to which they give the serious undivided attention which should be bestowed only on real enterprises.

There are others who seek soporifics, release from a hearty tackling of their individual situations,
in absorbing work, a work which perhaps fills their minds, but which is mere occupation--something
to make them forget--not an art for art's sake, not labor for its useful fruits, but a protective,
separating shield to shut out the insistent demands of life in the place where they find themselves.

All of these women are rightfully classed as irresponsible, whether they are moved by vanity,
indolence, purposelessness, social blindness, or, most pitiful, a sense of the emptiness of
life unattended by the imagination which reveals the sources from which life is filled. No
one of them is building a "House of Life" for herself. They are building gimcrack palaces,
gingerbread cottages, structures which the first full blast of life will level to the ground.

These women are not peculiar to city or to country. They are scattered nation-wide. You find
them on farms and in mansions, in offices and in academic halls. In startling contrast there
exists almost under the very eaves of the roofs which shelter them a vast and pitiful group
of friendless children,--the deserted babe, the "little mother," the boys and girls running
wild on side streets in every village in our land and in every slum in the cities, the factory
child, the shop girl who has no home. Let us remember that a goodly percentage of those at
work have homes and that they are engaged in a stimulating, if hard, effort to "help," that
they have the steadying consciousness that they are needed. Nevertheless, this mass of youth
is on the whole in an unnatural position--an antisocial relation.

Society can never run rightfully until all its members are performing their natural functions.
No woman, whatever her condition, can escape her obligation to youth without youth suffering,
and without suffering herself. One of the crying needs of to-day is a crusade, a jar, which
will force upon our free women the friendless children of the country, give them some sense
of the undeniable relation they bear to them, show them that they are in a sense the cause
of this pathetic group and that it is their work to relieve it.

True, for a woman there is nothing more painful than putting herself face to face with the
suffering of children. Yet for many years now we have had in this country a large and increasing
number who were going through the daily pain of grappling with every phase of the distressing
problems which come from the poverty, friendlessness, and overwork of the young. Out of their
heartbreaking scrutinies there have come certain determinations which are being adopted rapidly
wherever the social sense is aroused. We may roughly sum up these conclusions or determinations
to be these:--

It is not necessary or endurable that children grow up starved and overworked, that boys and
girls be submitted to vicious surroundings, that talent be crushed, that young men and young
women be devoured by crime and greed. Youth, its nurturing and developing, has become the passion
of the day. This is the meaning of our bureaus of Child Labor, of our Children's Courts, our
Houses of Correction, our Fresh-Air Funds and Vacation Homes, our laws regulating hours and
conditions, our Social Settlements.

At its very best, however, legislation, organization, work in groups, only indirectly reach
the base of the trouble. These homeless babes and children, these neglected boys and girls,
these reckless shop and factory girls, are generally the pain and menace that they are because
they have not had, as individuals, that guidance and affection of women to which each has a
natural right. No collective work, however good it may be, can protect or guide these children
properly. Rightfully they should be the charge of that body of women who are unhampered, "free."
These women have more, or less, intelligence, time, and means. They owe society a return for
their freedom, their means, and their education. Nature has made them the guardians of childhood.
Can they decently shirk the obligation any more than a man can decently shirk his duty as a
citizen? Indeed, the case of the woman unresponsive to her duty toward youth is parallel to
that of the man unresponsive to his duty toward public affairs. One is as profitless and parasitical
as the other.

The man who has no notion of what is doing politically in his own ward, who does not sense
the malign influences which may be working in his neighborhood, in his very street, perhaps
in the next house, who has not his eye on the unscrupulous small politician who leads the ward
by the nose, who knows nothing of the records of the local candidates, never goes to the primaries,--this
man is one of the most dangerous citizens we have. It is he who makes the machine possible.
If he did his work, the governmental machine, which starts there with him, would be sound.
It would be begun by honest men interested in serving the country to the best of their ability,
and on such a foundation no future solidarity of corruption would be possible.

The individual woman's obligation toward the children and young people in her neighborhood
is very like this obligation of the man to public affairs. It is for her to know the conditions
under which the children, the boys and girls, young men and maids, in her vicinity are actually
living. It is for her to be alert to their health, amusements, and general education. It is
for her to find the one--and there always is one--that actually needs her. It is for her to
correlate her personal discoveries and experiences with the general efforts of the community.

This is no work for an occasional morning. It does not mean sporadic or even regular "neighborhood
visiting." It means observation, reflection, and study. It has nothing to do save indirectly
with societies, or groups, or laws. It is a personal work, something nobody else can do, and
something which, if it is neglected, adds just so much more to the stream of uncared-for youth.
How is it to be done? Have you ever watched a woman interested in birds making her observations?
She will get up at daylight to catch a note of a new singer. She will study in detail the little
family that is making its home on her veranda. It is generally held in this country as a truth, that
"all men are created equal;" that is, born with the same rights. And if men, as social and moral
beings, are fitted by nature and designed for government and laws, we conclude that their political,
civil, and religious rights, and all other rights to which they are
entitled by the law of nature, are natural rights.

§9. Liberty is the being free to exercise and enjoy our rights, and
is called natural, political, civil, or religious, according to the
particular class of rights referred to. A few months ago the whole nation was horrified by a riot in a prosperous small
city of the Middle West which ended in the lynching of a young man, a mere boy, who in trying
to discharge his duty as a public official had killed a man. Some thirty persons, over half
of them boys under twenty years of age, are to-day serving terms of from fifteen to twenty
years in the penitentiary for their part in this lynching.

Their terrible work was no insane outbreak. Analyzed, it was a logical consequence of the social
and political conditions under which the boys had been brought up. In a pretty, rich, busy
town of 30,000 people proud of its churches and its schools, eighty saloons industriously plied
their business--and part of their business, as it always is, was to train youths to become
their patrons.

What were the women doing in the town? I asked the question of one who knew it. "Why," he said,
"they were doing just what women do everywhere, no better, no worse. They had their clubs;
I suppose a dozen literary clubs, several sewing clubs, several bridge clubs, and a number
of dancing clubs. I think they cared a little more for bridge than for literature, many of
them at least. They took little part in civic work, though they had done much for the city
library and city hospital. Many girls went to college, to the State Institute, to Vassar and
Smith. They came back to teach and to marry. It was just as it is everywhere."

Another to whom I put the same question, answered me in a sympathetic letter full of understanding
comment. The mingled devotion, energy, and blindness of the women the letter described, spoke
in its every line. They built charming homes, reared healthy, active children whom they educated
at any personal sacrifice--all within a circle of eighty saloons! To offset the saloons they
built churches--a church for each sect--each more gorgeous than its neighbor. It was in building
churches that they showed the "greatest tenacity of purpose." They had a large temperance organization.
It supported a rest room and met fortnightly to pray "ardently and sincerely." How little this
body of good women sensed their problem, how little they were fitted to deal with it, my informant's
comment reveals. "You doubtless remember the story," the letter runs, "of the old lady who
deplored the shooting of craps because, though she didn't know what they were, 'life was probably
as dear to them as to anybody.'"

"It was just as it is everywhere." Busy with self and their immediate circles, they went their
daily ways unseeing, though these ways were hedged with a corruption whose rank and horrible
offshoots at every step clutched the feet of the children for whom they were responsible.

Perhaps there is nothing to-day needed in this country more than driving into the minds of
women this personal obligation to do what may be called intensive gardening in youth. Whether
a woman wishes to see it or not, she is the center of a whirl of life. The health, the happiness,
and the future of those that are in this whirl are affected vitally by what she is and does.
To know all of the elements which are circulating about her as a man knows, if he does his
work, the political and business elements in his own group, this is her essential task. That
she should adjust her discoveries to the organizations, political, educational, and religious,
which are about her, goes without saying, but these organizations are not the heart of her
matter. The youngest reader probably knows, that in speaking of society, we do not refer to any of
those associations usually called societies, but to civil society,
composed of the people of a state or nation.

A nation, or state, is a large number of persons united under some form of government; as,
the French nation; the British nation; or the state of New-York; the state of Virginia. Sometimes
it signifies the ruling or governing power of a state or nation, as, the state has provided for
educating its citizens, and for supporting the poor.

§11. The object of the people in forming a state association, or, as is sometimes said, of
entering into civil society, is to promote their mutual safety and happiness.
 As a member goes out she will project herself into other communities
or perhaps other lands, into all sorts of industries, professions, and arts. Her growth is
absolutely natural. It is, too, one of the most economical growths the world knows. Nothing
is lost in it. She spreads literally like the banyan tree.

Yet in spite of this perfectly obvious fact, there are people to-day asking, with all appearance
of sincerity, what a woman of fifty or more can do! Their confining work in the home, say these
observers, is done. A common suggestion is that they be utilized in politics. This suggestion
has its comical side. A person who has nothing to do after fifty years of life in a business
as many-sided and demanding as that of a woman, can hardly be expected to be worth much in
a business as complicated and uncertain as politics, and for which she has had no training.
The notion that the woman's business is ended at fifty or sixty is fantastic. It only ends
there if she has been blind to the meaning of her own experiences; if she has never gone below
the surface of her task--never seen in it anything but physical relations and duties; has sensed
none of its intimate relations to the community, none of its obligations toward those who have
left her, none of those toward the oncoming generations. If it ends there, she has failed to
realize, too, the tremendous importance to all those who belong in her circle or who touch
it of what she makes of herself, of her personal achievement.

A woman of fifty or sixty who has succeeded, has come to a point of sound philosophy and serenity
which is of the utmost value in the mental and spiritual development of the group to which
she belongs. Life at every one of its seven stages has its peculiar harrowing experiences;
hope mingles with uncertainty in youth; fear and struggle characterize early manhood; disillusionment,
the question whether it is worth while, fill the years from forty to fifty,--but resolute grappling
with each period brings one out almost inevitably into a fine serene certainty which cannot
but have its effect on those who are younger. Ripe old age, cheerful, useful, and understanding,
is one of the finest influences in the world. We hang Rembrandt's or Whistler's picture of
his mother on our walls that we may feel its quieting hand, the sense of peace and achievement
which the picture carries. We have no better illustration of the meaning of old age.

Family and social groups should be a blend of all ages. One of the present weaknesses of our
society is that we herd each age together. The young do not have enough of the stimulating
intellectual influence of their elders. The elders do not have enough of the vitalizing influence
of the young. We make up our dinner party according to age, with the result that we lose the
full, fine blend of life.

The notion that a woman has no worthy place or occupation after she is fifty or sixty, and
that she can be utilized in public affairs, could only be entertained by one who has no clear
conception of either private or public affairs--no vision of the infinite reaches of the one
or the infinite complexities of the other. Human society may be likened to two great circles,
one revolving within the other. In the inner circle rules the woman. Here she breeds and trains
the material for the outer circle, which exists only by and for her. That accident may throw
her into this outer circle is of course true, but it is not her natural habitat, nor is she
fitted by nature to live and circulate freely there. We underestimate, too, the kind of experience
which is essential for intelligent citizenship in this outer circle. To know what is wise and
needed there one should circulate in it. The man at his labor in the street, in the meeting
places of men, learns unconsciously, as a rule, the code, the meaning, the need of public affairs
as woman learns those of private affairs. What it all amounts to is that the labor of the world
is naturally divided between the two different beings that people the world. It is unfair to
the woman that she be asked to do the work of the outer circle. The man can do that satisfactorily
if she does her part; that is, if she prepares him the material. Certainly, he can never come
into the inner circle and do her work.

The idea that there is a kind of inequality for a woman in minding her own business and letting
man do the same, comes from our confused and rather stupid notion of the meaning of equality.
Popularly we have come to regard being alike as being equal. We prove equality by wearing the
same kind of clothes, studying the same books, regardless of nature or capacity or future life.
Insisting that women do the same things that men do, may make the two exteriorly more alike--it
does not make them more equal. Men and women are widely apart in functions and in possibilities.
They cannot be made equal by exterior devices like trousers, ballots, the study of Greek. The
effort to make them so is much more likely to make them unequal. One only comes to his highest
power by following unconsciously and joyfully his own nature. We run the risk of destroying
the capacity for equality when we attempt to make one human being like another human being.

The theory that the class of free women considered here would be fired to unselfish interest
in uncared-for youth if they were included in the electorate of the nation is hardly sustainable.
The ballot has not prevented the growth of a similar class of men. Something more biting than
a new tool is needed to arouse men and women who are absorbed in self--some poignant experience
which thrusts upon their indolent minds and into their restricted visions the actualities of life.

It should be said, however, that the recent agitation for the ballot has served as such an
experience for a good many women, particularly in the East. Perhaps for the first time they
have heard from the suffrage platform of the "little mother," the factory child, the girl living
on $6 a week. They have done more than espouse the suffrage cause for the sake of the child;
they have gone out to find where they could serve.

It is a new knowledge of that tide of life which breaks at her very gate that the childless
and the free American woman needs, if she is to discharge her obligation to the uncared-for
child. To force these facts upon her, to cry to her, "You are the woman,--you cannot escape
the guilt of the woe and crime which must come from the neglect of childhood in your radius,"--this
is the business of every man and woman who has had the pain and the privilege of seeing something
of the actual life of the people of this world.

CHAPTER IX

ON THE ENNOBLING OF THE WOMAN'S BUSINESS

That the varied, delicate, and difficult problems which crowd the attention of the woman in
her social laboratory should ever be considered unworthy of first-class brains and training
is but proof of the difficulty the human mind has in distinguishing values when in the throes
of social change. We rightly believe to-day that the world is not nearly so well run as it
would be if we could--or would--apply unselfishly what we already know. Each of us advocates
his own pet theory of betterment, often to the exclusion of everybody else's theory.

One of the most disconcerting characteristics of advocates, conservative and radical, is their
conscienceless treatment of facts. The terms rights of person and rights of persons, or personal
rights, have not the same meaning. The rights of person, as the term is generally used, does
not include the right of property; personal rights include both the right of property and the
rights of person.

He wins, but he loses, by this method. He makes converts of those of his own kind, those who
like him have rare powers for indignation and sacrifice, but little capacity or liking for
the exact truth or for self-restraint. He turns from him many who are as zealous as he to change
conditions, but who demand that they be painted as they are and that justice be rendered both
to those who have fought against them in the past and to those who are in different ways doing
so to-day.

