One lovely summer afternoon a little boy was sitting on the edge of the cliff that skirts the
old churchyard of Raxton-on-Sea. He was sitting on the grass close to the brink of the indentation
cut by the water into the horse-shoe curve called by the fishermen Mousetrap Cove; sitting
there as still as an image of a boy in stone, at the forbidden spot where the wooden fence
proclaimed the crumbling hollow crust to be specially dangerous--sitting and looking across
the sheer deep gulf below.

Flinty Point on his right was sometimes in purple shadow and sometimes shining in the sun;
Needle Point on his left was sometimes in purple shadow and sometimes shining in the sun; and
beyond these headlands spread now the wide purple, and now the wide sparkle of the open sea.
The very gulls, wheeling as close to him as they dared, seemed to be frightened at the little
boy's peril. Straight ahead he was gazing, however--gazing so intently that his eyes must have
been seeing very much or else very little of that limitless world of light and coloured shade.
On account of certain questions connected with race that will be raised in this narrative,
I must dwell a little while upon the child's personal appearance, and especially upon his colour.
Natural or acquired, it was one that might be almost called unique; as much like a young Gypsy's
colour as was compatible with respectable descent, and yet not a Gypsy's colour. A deep undertone
of 'Romany brown' seemed breaking through that peculiar kind of ruddy golden glow which no
sunshine can give till it has itself been deepened and coloured and enriched by the responsive
kisses of the sea.

Moreover, there was a certain something in his eyes that was not Gypsy-like--a something which
is not uncommonly seen in the eyes of boys born along that coast, whether those eyes be black
or blue or grey; a something which cannot be described, but which seems like a reflex of the
daring gaze of that great land-conquering and daring sea. Very striking was this expression
as he momentarily turned his face landward to watch one of the gulls that had come wheeling
up the cliffs towards the flinty grey tower of the church--the old deserted church, whose graveyard
the sea had already half washed away. As his eyes followed the bird's movements, however, this
daring sea-look seemed to be growing gradually weaker and weaker. At last it faded away altogether,
and by the time his face was turned again towards the sea, the look I have tried to describe
was supplanted by such a gaze as that gull would give were it hiding behind a boulder with
a broken wing. A mist of cruel trouble was covering his eyes, and soon the mist had grown into
two bright glittering pearly tears, which, globing and trembling, larger and larger, were at
length big enough to drown both eyes; big enough to drop, shining, on the grass: big enough
to blot out altogether the most brilliant picture that sea and sky could make. For that little
boy had begun to learn a lesson which life was going to teach him fully--the lesson that shining
sails in the sunny wind, and black trailing bands of smoke passing here and there along the
horizon, and silvery gulls dipping playfully into the green and silver waves (nay, all the
beauties and all the wonders of the world), make but a blurred picture to eyes that look through
the lens of tears. However, with a brown hand brisk and angry, he brushed away these tears,
like one who should say, 'This kind of thing will never do.'

Indeed, so hardy was the boy's face--tanned by the sun, hardened and bronzed by the wind, reddened
by the brine--that tears seemed entirely out of place there. The innocent creature, who never
suspected his intentions, was pleased with his person; and, having observed his growing passion
for her, hoped by so advantageous a match she might quickly be in a capacity of supporting her
impoverished relations.
 They will be surprised to know that owing to a fall
from the cliff I was for about two years a cripple.

This is how it came about. Rough and yielding as were the paths, called 'gangways,' connecting
the cliffs with the endless reaches of sand below, they were not rough enough, or yielding
enough, or in any way dangerous enough for me.

So I used to fashion 'gangways' of my own; I used to descend the cliff at whatsoever point
it pleased me, clinging to the lumps of sandy earth with the prehensile power of a spider-monkey.
Many a warning had I had from the good fishermen and sea-folk, that some day I should fall
from top to bottom--fall and break my neck. A laugh was my sole answer to these warnings; for,
with the possession of perfect health, I had inherited that instinctive belief in good luck
which perfect health will often engender.

However, my punishment came at last. The coast, which is yielding gradually to the sea, is
famous for sudden and gigantic landslips. These landslips are sometimes followed, at the return
of the tide, by a further fall, called a 'settlement.' The word 'settlement' explains itself,
perhaps. No matter how smooth the sea, the return of the tide seems on that coast to have a
strange magnetic power upon the land, and the debris of a landslip will sometimes, though not
always, respond to it by again falling and settling into new and permanent shapes.

Now, on the morning after a great landslip, when the coastguard, returning on his beat, found
a cove where, half-an-hour before, he had left his own cabbages growing, I, in spite of all
warnings, had climbed the heap of débris from the sands, and while I was hallooing triumphantly
to two companions below--the two most impudent-looking urchins, bare-footed and unkempt, that
ever a gentleman's son forgathered with--a great mass of loose earth settled, carrying me with
it in its fall. I was taken up for dead.

It was, however, only a matter of broken ribs and a damaged leg. And there is no doubt that
if the local surgeon had not been allowed to have his own way, I should soon have been cured.
As it was I became a cripple. The great central fact--the very pivot upon which all the wheels
of my life have since been turning--is that for two years during the impressionable period
of childhood I walked with crutches.

It must not be supposed that my tears--the tears which at this moment were blotting out the
light and glory of the North Sea in the sun--came from the pain I was suffering. They came
from certain terrible news, which even my brother Frank had been careful to keep from me, but
which had fallen from the lips of my father--the news that I was not unlikely to be a cripple
for life. From that moment I had become a changed being, solitary and sometimes morose. I would
come and sit staring at the ocean, meditating on tilings in general, but chiefly on things
connected with cripples, asking myself, as now, whether life would be bearable on crutches.

At my heart were misery and anger and such revolt as is, I hope, rarely found in the heart
of a child. I had sat down outside the rails at this most dangerous point along the cliff,
wondering whether or not it would crumble beneath me. For this lameness coming to me, who had
been so active, who had been, indeed, the little athlete and pugilist of the sands, seemed
to have isolated me from my fellow-creatures to a degree that is inconceivable to me now. A
stubborn will and masterful pride made me refuse to accept a disaster such as many a nobler
soul than mine has, I am conscious, borne with patience. My nature became soured by asking
in vain for sympathy at home; my loneliness drove me--silent, haughty, and aggressive--to haunt
the churchyard, and sit at the edge of the cliff, gazing wistfully at the sea and the sands
which could not be reached on crutches. Like a wounded sea-gull, I retired and took my trouble
alone.

How could I help taking it alone when none would sympathise with me? My brother Frank called
me 'The Black Savage,' and I half began to suspect myself of secret impulses of a savage kind.
Once I heard my mother murmur, as she stroked Frank's rosy cheeks and golden curls, 'My poor
Henry is a strange, proud boy!' Then, looking from my crutches to Frank's beautiful limbs,
she said, 'How providential that it was not the elder! Providence is kind.' She meant kind
to the House of Aylwin. I often wonder whether she guessed that I heard her. I often wonder
whether she knew how I had loved her.

This is how matters stood with me on that summer afternoon, when I sat on the edge of the cliff
in a kind of dull, miserable dream. Suddenly, at the moment when the huge mass of clouds had
covered the entire surface of the water between Flinty Point and Needle Point with their rich
purple shadow, it seemed to me that the waves began to sparkle and laugh in a joyful radiance
which they were making for themselves. And at that same moment an unwonted sound struck my
ear from the churchyard behind me--a strange sound indeed in that deserted place--that of a
childish voice singing.

Was, then, the mighty ocean writing symbols for an unhappy child to read? My father, from whose
book, The Veiled Queen, the extract with which this chapter opens is taken, would, unhesitatingly,
have answered 'Yes.'

'Destiny, no doubt, in the Greek drama concerns itself only with the great,' says he, in that
wonderful book of his. 'But who are the great? With the unseen powers, mysterious and imperious,
who govern while they seem not to govern all that is seen, who are the great? In a world where
man's loftiest ambitions are to higher intelligences childish dreams, where his highest knowledge
is ignorance, where his strongest strength is to heaven a derision--who are the great? Are
they not the few men and women and children on the earth who greatly love?'

II

So sweet a sound as that childish voice I had never heard before. I held my breath and listened.

Into my very being that child-voice passed, and it was a new music and a new joy. I can give
the reader no notion of it, because there is not in nature anything with which I can compare
it. The blackcap has a climacteric note, just before his song collapses and dies, so full of
pathos and tenderness that often, when I had been sitting on a gate in Wilderness Road, it
had affected me more deeply than any human words. But here was a note sweet and soft as that,
and yet charged with a richness no blackcap's song had ever borne, because no blackcap has
ever felt the joys and sorrows of a young human soul.

The voice was singing in a language which seemed strange to me then, but has been familiar
enough since:

                  Bore o'r cymwl aur,
                  Eryri oedd dy gaer.
                  Bren o wyllt a gwar,
                  Gwawr ysbrydau.[Footnote]

                  [Footnote: Morning of the golden cloud,
                  Eryrl was thy castle,
                  King of the wild and tame,
                  Glory of the spirits of air!]

[Eryri--the Place of Eagles, i.e. Snowdon.]

Intense curiosity now made me suddenly forget my troubles. I scrambled back through the trees
not tar from that spot and looked around. There, sitting upon a grassy grave, beneath one of
the windows of the church, was a little girl, somewhat younger than myself apparently. With
her head bent back she was gazing up at the sky and singing, while one of her little hands
was pointing to a tiny cloud that hovered like a golden feather over her head. The sun, which
had suddenly become very bright, shining on her glossy hair (for she was bare-headed) gave
it a metallic lustre, and it was difficult to say what was the colour, dark bronze or black.
So completely absorbed was she in watching the cloud to which her strange song or incantation
seemed addressed, that she did not observe me when I rose and went towards her. Over her head,
high up in the blue, a lark that was soaring towards the same gauzy cloud was singing, as if
in rivalry. As I slowly approached the child, I could see by her forehead (which in the sunshine
gleamed like a globe of pearl), and especially by her complexion, that she was uncommonly lovely,
and I was afraid lest she should look down before I got close to her, and so see my crutches
before her eyes encountered my face. She did not, however, seem to hear me coming along the
grass (so intent was she with her singing) until I was close to her, and throwing my shadow
over her. Then she suddenly lowered her head and looked at me in surprise. I stood transfixed
at her astonishing beauty. No other picture has ever taken such possession of me. In its every
detail it lives before me now. Her eyes (which at one moment seemed blue grey, at another violet)
were shaded by long black lashes, curving backward in a most peculiar way, and these matched
in hue her eyebrows, and the tresses that were tossed about her tender throat and were quivering
in the sunlight.

All this picture I did not take in at once; for at first I could see nothing but those quivering,
glittering, changeful eyes turned up into my face. Gradually the other features (especially
the sensitive full-lipped mouth) grew upon me as I stood silently gazing. Here seemed to me
a more perfect beauty than had ever come to me in my loveliest dreams of beauty beneath the
sea. Yet it was not her beauty perhaps, so much as the look she gave me, that fascinated me,
melted me.

As she gazed in my face there came over hers a look of pleased surprise, and then, as her eyes
passed rapidly down my limbs and up again, her face was not overshadowed with the look of disappointment
which I had waited for--yes, waited for, like a pinioned criminal for the executioner's uplifted
knife; but the smile of pleasure was still playing about the little mouth, while the tender
young eyes were moistening rapidly with the dews of a kind of pity that was new to me, a pity
that did not blister the pride of the lonely wounded sea-gull, but soothed, healed, and blessed.

Remember that I was a  younger son--that I was swarthy--that I was a cripple--and that my mother--had
Frank. It was as though my heart must leap from my breast towards that child. Not a word had
she spoken, but she had  said what the little maimed 'fighting Hal' yearned to hear, and without
knowing that he yearned.

I restrained myself, and did  not yield to the feeling that impelled me to throw my arms round
her neck in an ecstasy of wonder and delight. After a second or two she again threw back her
head to gaze at the golden cloud.

'Look!' said she, suddenly clapping her hands, 'it's over both of us now.'

'What is it?' I said.

'The Dukkeripen,' she said, 'the Golden Hand. Sinfi and Rhona both say the Golden Hand brings
luck: what is luck?'

I looked up at the little cloud which to me seemed more like a golden feather than a golden
hand. But I soon bent my eyes down again to look at her.

While I stood looking at her, the tall figure of a man came out of the church. This was Tom
Wynne. Besides being the organist of Raxton 'New Church,' Tom was also (for a few extra shillings
a week) custodian of the 'Old Church,' this deserted pile within whose precincts we now were.
Tom's features wore an expression of virtuous indignation which puzzled me, and evidently frightened
the little girl. He locked the door, and walked unsteadily towards us. He seemed surprised
to see me there, and his features relaxed into a bland civility.

'This is (hiccup) Master Aylwin, Winifred,' he said.

The child looked at me again with the same smile. Her alarm had fled.

'This is my little daughter Winifred,' said Tom, with a pompous bow.

I was astonished. I never knew that Wynne had a daughter, for intimate as he and I had become,
he had actually never mentioned his daughter before.

'My only daughter,' Tom repeated.

He then told me, with many hiccups, that, since her mother's death (that is to say from her
very infancy), Winifred had been brought up by an aunt in Wales. 'Quite a lady, her aunt is,'
said Tom proudly, 'and Winifred has come to spend a few weeks with her father.'

He said this in a grandly paternal tone--a tone that seemed meant to impress upon her how very
much obliged she ought to feel to him for consenting to be her father; and, judging from the
look the child gave him, she did feel very much obliged.

Suddenly, however, a thought seemed to come back upon Tom, a thought which my unexpected appearance
on the scene had driven from his drunken brain. The look of virtuous indignation returned,
and staring at the little girl through glazed eyes, he said with the tremulous and tearful
voice of a deeply injured parent,

'Winifred, I thought I heard you singing one of them heathen Gypsy songs that you learnt of
the Gypsies in Wales.'

'No, father,' said she, 'it was the song they sing in Shire-Carnarvon about the golden cloud
over Snowdon and the spirits of the air.'

'Yes,' said Tom, 'but a little time ago you were singing a Gypsy song--a downright heathen
Gypsy song. This divine philosopher was so well fortified in his own innocence,
that he neglected all the impotence of evil tongues which were engaged
in his destruction.

This was properly the support of a good conscience, that contradicted
the reports which had been raised against him, and cleared him to
himself.

7.

Others of the philosophers rather chose to retort the injury of a
smart reply, than thus to disarm it with respect to themselves.

They shew that it stung them, though at the same time they had the address to make their aggressors
suffer with them. Of this kind is Aristotle's reply to one who pursued him with long and bitter invectives.
You, says he, who are used to suffer reproaches, utter them with
delight; I who have not been used to utter them, take no pleasure
in hearing them.
I'm s'prised at you, Winifred.'

I had often seen Tom in a dignified state of liquor, but the pathetic expression of injured
virtue that again overspread his face so changed it, that I had some difficulty myself in realising
how entirely the tears filling his eyes and the grief at his heart were of alcoholic origin.
And as to the little girl, she began to sob piteously.

'Oh dear, oh dear, what a wicked girl I am !' said she.

This exclamation, however, aroused my ire against Tom; and as I always looked upon him as my
special paid henchman, who, in return for such services as supplying me with tiny boxing-gloves,
and fishing-tackle, and bait, during my hale days, and tame rabbits now that I was a cripple,
mostly contrived to possess himself of my pocket-money, I had no hesitation in exclaiming,

'Why, Tom, you know you're drunk, you silly old fool!'

At this Tom turned his mournful and reproachful gaze upon me, and began to weep anew. Then
he turned and addressed the sea, uplifting his hand in oratorical fashion:--

'Here's a young gentleman as I've been more than a father to--yes, more than a father to--for
when did his own father ever give him a ferret-eyed rabbit, a real ferret-eyed rabbit thoroughbred?'

'Why, I gave you one of my five-shilling pieces for it,' said I; 'and the rabbit was in a consumption
and died in three weeks.'

But Tom still addressed the sea.

'When did his own father give him,' said he, 'the longest thigh-bone that the sea ever washed
out of Raxton churchyard?'

'Why, I gave you two of my five-shilling pieces for that,' said I, 'and next day you went and
borrowed the bone, and sold it over again to Dr. Munro for a quart of beer.'

'When did his own father give him a beautiful skull for a money-box, and make an oak lid to
it, and keep it for him because his mother wouldn't have it in the house?'

'Ah, but where's the money that was in it, Tom? Where's the money?' said I, flourishing one
of my crutches, for I was worked up to a state of high excitement when I recalled my own wrongs
and Tom's frauds, and I forgot his relationship to the little girl. 'Where are the bright new
half-crowns that were in the money-box when I left it with you--the half-crowns that got changed
into pennies, Tom? Where are they? What's the use of having a skull for a money-box if it's
got no money in it? That's what I want to know, Tom!'

'Here's a young gentleman,' said Tom, 'as I've done all these things for, and how does he treat
me? He says, "Why, Tom, you know you're drunk, you silly old fool."'

At this pathetic appeal the little girl sprang up and turned towards me with the ferocity of
a young tigress. Her little hands were tightly clenched, and her eyes seemed positively to
be emitting blue sparks. Many a bold boy had I encountered on the sands before my accident,
and many a fearless girl, but such an impetuous antagonist as this was new. I leaned on my
crutches, however, and looked at her unblenchingly.

'You wicked English boy, to make my father cry,' said she, as soon as her anger allowed her
to speak. 'If you were not lame I'd--I'd--I'd hit you.'

I did not move a muscle, but stood lost in a dream of wonder at her amazing loveliness. The
fiery flush upon her face and neck, the bewitching childish frown of anger corrugating the
brow, the dazzling glitter of the teeth, the quiver of the full scarlet lips above and below
them, turned me dizzy with admiration.

Her eyes met mine, and slowly the violet flames in them began to soften. Then they died away
entirely as she murmured,

'You wicked English boy, if you hadn't--beautiful--beautiful eyes, I'd kill you.'

By this time, however, Tom had entirely forgotten his grievance against me, and gazed upon
Winifred in a state of drunken wonderment.

'Winifred,' he said, in a tone of sorrowful reproach, 'how dare you speak like that to Master
Aylwin, your father's best friend, the only friend your poor father's got in the world, the
friend as I give ferret-eyed rabbits to, and tame hares, and beautiful skulls? Beg his pardon
this instant, Winifred. Down on your knees and beg my friend's pardon this instant, Winifred.'

The poor little girl stood dazed, and was actually sinking down on her knees on the grass before
me.

I cried out in acute distress,

'No, no, no, no, Tom, pray don't let her--dear little girl! beautiful little girl!'

'Very well, Master Aylwin,' said Tom grandly, 'she sha'n't if you don't like, but she shall
go and kiss you and make it up.'

At this the child's face brightened, and she came and laid her little red lips upon mine. Velvet
lips, I feel them now, soft and warm--I feel them while I write these lines.

Tom looked on for a moment, and then left us, blundering away towards Raxton, most likely to
a beer-house.

He told the child that she was to go home and mind the house until he returned. He gave her
the church key to take home. We two were left alone in the churchyard, looking at each other
in silence, each waiting for the other to speak. At last she said, demurely, 'Good-bye; father
says I must go home.'

And she walked away with a business-like air towards the little white gate of the churchyard,
opening upon what was called 'The Wilderness Road.' When she reached the gate she threw a look
over her shoulder as she passed through. It was that same look again--wistful, frank, courageous.
I immediately began to follow her, although I did not know why. When she saw this she stopped
for me. I got up to her, and then we proceeded side by side in perfect silence along the dusty
narrow road, perfumed with the scent of wild rose and honeysuckle. Suddenly she stopped and said,

'I have left my hat on the tower,' and laughed merrily at her own heedlessness.

She ran back with an agility which I thought I had never seen equalled. It made me sad to see
her run so fast, though once how it would have delighted me! I stood still; but when she reached
the church porch she again looked over her shoulder, and again I followed her:--I did not in
the least know why. That look I think would have made me follow her through lire and water--it
has made me follow her through fire and water. When I reached her she put the great black key
in the lock. She had some difficulty in turning the key, but I did not presume to offer such
services as mine to so superior a little woman. After one or two fruitless efforts with both
her hands, each attempt accompanied with a little laugh and a little merry glance in my face,
she turned the key and pushed open the door. We both passed into the ghastly old church, through
the green glass windows of which the sun was shining, and illuminating the broken remains of
the high-hacked pews on the opposite side. She ran along towards the belfry, and I soon lost
her, for she passed up the stone steps, where I knew I could not follow her.

In deep mortification I stood listening at the bottom of the steps--listening to those little
feet crunching up the broken stones--listening to the rustle of her dress against the narrow
stone walls, until the sounds grew fainter and fainter, and then ceased.

Presently I heard her voice a long way up, calling out, 'Little boy, if you go outside you
will see something.' I guessed at once that she was going to exhibit herself on the tower,
where, before my accident, I and my brother Frank were so fond of going. I went outside the
church and stood in the graveyard, looking up at the tower. In a minute I saw her on it. Her
face was turned towards me, gilded by the golden sunshine. I could, or thought I could, even
at that distance, see the flash of the bright eyes looking at me. Then a little hand was put
over the parapet, and I saw a dark hat swinging by its strings, as she was waving it to me.
Oh! that I could have climbed those steps and done that! But that exploit of hers touched a
strange chord within me. Had she been a boy, I could have borne it in a defiant way; or had
she been any other girl than this, my heart would not have sunk as it now did when I thought
of the gulf between her and me. Down I sat upon a grave, and looked at her with a feeling quite
new to me.

This was a phase of cripplehood I had not contemplated. She soon left the tower, and made her
appearance at the church door again. After locking it, which she did by thrusting a piece of
stick through the handle of the key, she came and stood over me. But I turned my eyes away
and gazed across the sea, and tried to deceive myself into believing that the waves, and the
gulls, and the sails dreaming on the sky-line, and the curling clouds of smoke that came now
and then from a steamer passing Dullingham Point were interesting me deeply. There was a remoteness
about the little girl now, since I had seen her unusual agility, and I was trying to harden
my heart against her. Loneliness I felt was best for me. She did not speak, but stood looking
at me. I turned my eyes round and saw that she was looking at my crutches, which were lying
beside me aslant the green hillock where I sat. Her face had turned grave and pitiful.

'Oh! I forgot,' she said. 'I wish I had not run away from you now.'

'You may run where you like for what I care,' I said. But the words were very shaky, and I
had no sooner said them than I wished them back. She made no reply for some time, and I sat
plucking the wild-flowers near my hands, and gazing again across the sea. At last she said,

'Would you like to come in our garden? It's such a nice garden.'

I could resist her no longer. That voice would have drawn me had she spoken in the language
of the Toltecs or the lost Zamzummin. To describe it would of course be impossible. The novelty
of her accent, the way in which she gave the 'h' in 'which,' 'what,' and 'when,' the Welsh
rhythm of her intonation, were as bewitching to me as the timbre of her voice. And let me say
here, once for all, that when I sat down to write this narrative, I determined to give the
English reader some idea of the way in which, whenever her emotions were deeply touched, her
talk would run into soft Welsh diminutives; but I soon abandoned the attempt in despair. I
found that to use colloquial Welsh with effect in an English context is impossible without
wearying English readers and disappointing Welsh ones.

Here, indeed, is one of the great disadvantages under which this book will go out to the world.
While a story-teller may reproduce, by means of orthographical devices, something of the effect
of Scottish accent, Irish accent, or Manx accent, such devices are powerless to represent Welsh
accent.

I got up in silence, and walked by her side out of the churchyard towards her father's cottage,
which was situated between the new church and the old, and at a considerable distance from
the town of Raxton on one side, and the village of Graylingham on the other. Her eager young
limbs would every moment take her ahead of me, for she was as vigorous as a fawn. But by the
time she was half a yard in advance, she would recollect herself and fall back; and every time
she did so that same look of tenderness would overspread her face.

At last she said, 'What makes you stare at me so, little boy?'

I blushed and turned my head another way, for I had been feasting my eyes upon her complexion,
and trying to satisfy myself as to what it really was like. "No news from Madam "BLANK" and her beloved
Husband. Their unreasonable fondness for each other can never last: they will soon grow as cold
to one another as the Town to The Beggars' Opera. And cannot warm again, you think?
 But this tone, whatever it was, did not spread higher than the eyebrows.
The forehead was different. It had a singular kind of pearly look, and her long slender throat
was almost of the same tone: no, not the same, for there was a transparency about her throat
unlike that of the forehead. This colour I was just now thinking looked something like the
inside of a certain mysterious shell upon my father's library shelf.

