'I had always regarded my father as one of the best and most exemplary of men; and after my
mother's crime, I comforted myself with the reflection that he, at least, was no hypocrite!
but in every sense a good and sincere Christian. Nothing happened to shake this belief, until
I had reached my fourteenth year; and then, alas! I became too painfully convinced that all
his professions of piety and holiness were but a cloak to conceal the real wickedness of his
heart. It chanced, about this time, that a young woman was received into our family, as a domestic:
this person was far from being handsome or in the slightest degree interesting, in countenance--yet
her figure was rather good than otherwise. She was a bold, wanton-looking wench; and soon after
she came to live with us, I noticed that my father frequently eyed her with something sensual
in his glances. 

While visiting his mother in southern Germany, the woodsman fell in love with a girl who eventually
became his second wife. He felt very fortunate for his new family and was delighted with his young
bride. He was glad his wife was accepted by the children of the area as he observed her placing
a little girl carefully in a basket.
 My father's voice next reached me; what he said I could not
clearly distinguish; but he seemed to be remonstrating with the girl, and entreating her to
grant him some favor; what that favor was, I could readily guess; and that she did grant it
to him, without much further coaxing, was soon evident to my mind, by certain unmistakable
sounds. But I preferred seeing to hearing; creeping softly down the kitchen stairs, I peeped
in at the door, which was slightly ajar, and beheld my Christian papa engaged in a manner that
reflected no credit on his observance of the seventh commandment.

'Thus having satisfied myself as to the nature and extent of his sanctity and holiness, I softly
ascended the stairs, and resumed my seat in the parlor. In less than ten minutes afterwards,
the whole family were summoned together around the family altar, and then my excellent and
pious father poured out his pure spirit in prayer, returning thanks for having been 'preserved
from temptation,' and supplicating that all the members of his household might flee from fleshy
lusts, which war against the soul; to which my chaste and saint-like mother responded in a
fervent 'Amen.' From that evening, the kitchen wench with whom my father had defiled himself,
assumed an air of bold insolence to every one in the house; she refused to perform any of the
menial services devolving upon her, and when my mother spoke of dismissing her, my father would
not listen to it; so the girl continued with us. She had evidently obtained entire dominion
over my father, and did not scruple to use her power to her own advantage; for she flaunted
about in showy ribbons and gay dresses, and I had no difficulty in surmising who furnished
her with the means of procuring them.

'I still continued to attend the church of the Rev. Mr. Flanders. He used to preach excellent
sermons, so far as composition and style of delivery were concerned; his words were smooth
as oil; his manner full of the order of sanctity; his prayers were fervid eloquence. Yet, when
I thought what a consummate scoundrel and hypocrite he was at heart, I viewed him with loathing
and disgust.

'I soon became sensible that this reverend rogue began to view me with more than an ordinary
degree of interest and admiration; for I may say, without vanity, that as I approached my fifteenth
year, I was a very pretty girl; my form had begun to develop and ripen, and my maiden graces
were not likely to escape the lustful eyes of the elderly roues of our 'flock,' and seemed
to be particularly attractive to that aged libertine known as the Rev. Balaam Flanders.

'So far from being flattered by the attentions of our minister (as many of our flock were,)
I detested and avoided him. Yet his lecherous glances were constantly upon me, whenever I was
thrown into his society; even when he was in the pulpit, he would often annoy me with his lustful
gaze.

'A bible class of young ladies was attached to the church, of which I was a member. We assembled
at the close of divine service in the evening, for the study and examination of the Scriptures.
Mr. Flanders himself had charge of this class, and was regarded by all the young ladies (myself
excepted) as a 'dear, good man.' When one of us was particularly apt in answering a question
or finding a passage, he would playfully chuck the good scholar under the chin, in token of
his commendation; and sometimes, even, he would bestow a fatherly kiss upon the fair student
of holy writ.

'These little tokens of his amativeness he often bestowed on me; and I permitted him, as I
considered such liberties to be comparatively harmless. He soon however went beyond these 'attentions'
to me--he first began by passing his hand over my bust, outside my dress, and, growing emboldened
by my suffering him to do this, he would slide his hand into my bosom, and take hold of my
budding evidences of approaching womanhood. Once he whispered in my ear--'My dear, what a delicious
bust you have!' I was by no means surprised at his conduct or words, for his faux pas with
my frail mother convinced me that he was capable of any act of lechery. I also felt assured
that he lusted after me with all the ardor of his lascivious passions, and I well know that
he waited but for an opportunity to attempt my seduction.--I hated the man, both for his adultery
with my mother, and his vile intentions towards myself--and I determined to punish him for
his lewdness and hypocrisy--yes, punish him through the medium of his own bad passions, and
in a manner that would torture him with alternate hope and despair; now inspiring him with
rapture by apparently almost yielding to his wishes, and then maddening him by my resistance--at
the same time resolving not to submit to his desires in any case. This was my plan for punishing
the hoary libertine, and you shall see how well I carried it out.

'I did not discourage my reverend admirer in his amorous advances, but on the contrary received
them in such a manner as might induce him to suppose that they were rather pleasing to me than
otherwise. This I did in order to ensure the success of my scheme--I observed with secret satisfaction
that he grew bolder and bolder in the liberties which he took with my person. He frequently
accompanied me home in the evening after prayer meeting; and he always took care to traverse
the most obscure and deserted streets with me, so as to have a better opportunity to indulge
in his licentious freedoms with me, unobserved. Not content with thrusting his hand into my
bosom, he would often attempt to pursue his investigations elsewhere: but this I always refused
to permit him to do. He was continually embracing and kissing me--and in the latter indulgence,
he often disgusted me beyond measure, by the excessive libidinousness which he exhibited--I
merely mention these things to show the vile and beastly nature of this man, whom the world
regarded as a pure and holy minister of the gospel. Though old enough to be my grandfather,
the most hot blooded boy in existence could not have been more wanton or eccentric in the manifestations
of his lustful yearnings. In fact, he wearied me almost to death by his unceasing persecution
of me; yet I bore it with patience, so as to accomplish the object I had in view.

'I have often, upon the Sabbath, looked at that man as he stood in the pulpit; how pious he
appeared, with his high, serene forehead, his carefully arranged gray hair, his mild and saint-like
features, his snow-white cravat, and plain yet rich suit of glossy black! The young man but did not seem Desire
to have "to this" open world. His thoughts made the pilgrimage not go into the New and imprecise,
when not watching them, they turned on a thousand secret paths into the only extinct beauty of
his childhood and knelt down in front of a small, sad woman of whom he knew nothing except that
she sang soft songs and Slavic Time when he began to go to school in the dark back room and
lay on the bed without say to someone like this, very slowly and quietly, perhaps a year, died.
At that time he was afraid most of her before, but when they went away so early, he missed
them all and accustomed to all the good that was happening, again and again due to their tender
love, from which he believed that she was kept awake on his day. It's early orphaned Children
like this: All the joys that share their playmates carefree and happy with each other do not
touch them and twist them in silent loyalty again and again to the image of a dark Longing,
the victim in this context, touching gradually clearer, happier, participating seems. And because
they remain poor, they remain lonely and because they do not reveal their joys, they do not
win this fellow. Anyway: who the mother is not shown the way in the world has studied and studied
and the can not find any door.

Only lived in since the Provisor Wankas, could it happen that he sometimes felt being at home. He
was happy in his little room and made the free Sundays to it, before the big desks, in the
heavy clouds of smoke his pipe, lost in old to read books on their yellowing pages, he forgot
about today and tomorrow. No wonder that he was a quiet knock at his door and heard about only
started up frightened, as Luisa entered and stood behind the dense tobacco smoke timid and indecisive.
 He begged,
entreated, supplicated me to let him come near me; and at last I consented; upon condition
that he should attempt to take no further liberties. To this he agreed, and seating himself
at my side, but without touching me, he devoured me with lustful eyes. For some minutes neither
of us spoke, but at length he took my hand, and again passed his arm around my waist. I did
not oppose him, but remained passive and silent. 'Dear girl,' he whispered, pressing me close
to him--'why need you be so cruel as to deny me the pleasure of love? Consider, I am your minister,
and cannot sin: it will therefore be no sin for you to favor me.'

'Oh, sir,' I answered, 'I wish you were a young man--then I could almost--'

'Angelic creature!' he cried passionately--'true, I am not young, but Love never grows old--no,
no, no! Consent to be mine, sweet delicious girl, and--'

'Ah, sir!' I murmured--'you tempt me sorely--I am but a weak giddy young creature; do not ask
me to do wrong, for I fear that I may yield, and how very, very wicked that would be!'

'The reverend gentleman covered my cheeks and lips with hot kisses, as he said--'Wicked--no!
Heaven has given us passions, and we must gratify them. Look at David--look at Solomon--both
good men;--they enjoyed the delights of love, and are now saints in Heaven, and why may not
we do the same? Why, my dear, it is the special privilege of the ministry to--'

'Ruin us young girls, sir?' I rejoined, smiling archly. 'Ah, you have set my heart in a strange
flutter! I feel almost inclined--if you are sure it is not wicked--very sure--then I--'

'You are mine!' he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper, with frenzied triumph gleaming in his eyes.
I never saw anybody look so fearful as he did then; his form quivered with intense excitement--his
features appeared as if convulsed--his eyes, almost starting from their sockets, were blood
shot and fiery. I trembled, lest in the madness of his passions, he might forcibly overcome
me. He anticipated no resistance, imagining that he had an easy prey; but, at that very instant
when he thought he was about to intoxicate his vile soul with the delicious draught of sensual
delight, I spurned him from me as I would have spurned the most loathsome reptile that crawls
amid the foetid horrors of a dungeon vault.--That was the moment of my triumph; I had led him
step by step, until he felt assured of his ultimate success: I had permitted him to obtain,
as it were, glimpses of a Paradise he was never to enjoy; and at the very moment he thought
to have crossed the golden threshold, to enter into the blissful and flowery precincts of that
Paradise, he was hurled from the pinnacle of his hopes, and doomed to endure the bitter pangs
of disappointment, and the gnawings of a raging desire, never to be appeased!

'Thus repulsed, my reverend admirer did not resume his attempt, for my indignation was aroused,
and he saw fierce anger flashing from my eyes. I solemnly declared, that had he attempted forcibly
to accomplish his purpose, I would have dashed out his brains with the first weapon I could
have laid my hand to!

'Humbled and abashed, he retired to a corner of the room, where he seated himself with an air
of mortified disappointment. Yet still he kept his eyes upon me; and as I knew that his desires
were raging as violently within him as ever (tho' he dare not approach me,) I devised the following
method of augmenting his passions, and inflicting further torture upon him:--In my struggle
with him, my dress had become somewhat disarranged and torn; and standing before a large mirror
which was placed over the mantle-piece, I loosened my garments, and while pretending to examine
the injury which had been done to them, I took especial pains to remove all covering from my
neck, shoulders and bosom, which were uncommonly soft and white, as you, my dear, can testify.
The sight of my naked charms instantly produced the desired effect upon the minister, who watched
my slightest movement with eager scrutiny: he ceased almost to breathe, but panted--yes, absolutely
panted--with the intensity of his passions.--Oh, how my heart swelled with delight at the agony
he was thus forced to endure! Affecting to be unconscious of his presence, I assumed the most
graceful and voluptuous attitudes I could think of--and he could endure it no longer; for--would
you believe it?--he actually fell upon his knees before me, and groveled at my feet, entreating
me, in a hoarse whisper, to kill him at once and end his torments, or else yield myself to him!

'My revenge was now accomplished, and I desired no more. I requested him to arise from his
abject posture, and listen to me. Then I told him all I knew of his hypocrisy and wickedness--how
I had become aware of his criminal intercourse with my mother, which, combined with his vile
conduct and intentions in regard to myself, had induced me to punish him in the manner I had
done, by exciting his passions almost to madness, and then repulsing him with disdain. I added,
maliciously, that my own passions were warm and ardent, and that my young blood sometimes coursed
thro' my veins with all the heat of sensual desire--and that were a man, young and handsome,
to solicit my favors, I might possibly yield, in a thoughtless moment: but as for him, (the
minister) sooner than submit to his embraces, I would permit the vilest negro in existence,
to take me in his arms, and do with me as he pleased.

'All this I told the Rev. Mr. Flanders, and much more; and after listening in evident misery
to my remarks, he took himself from the house. After this occurrence, I discontinued my attendance
at his church and bible class. When my parents asked me the reason of my nonattendance, I refused
to answer them; and at length they became enraged at what they termed my obstinacy, and insisted
that I should not fail to attend church on the following Sabbath.--When the Sabbath came, I
made no preparation for going to church; which mother perceiving, she began to apply the most
reproachful and severe language to me. This irritated me; and without a moment's reflection,
I said to her angrily:

'I can well conceive, madam, the reason of your great partiality to the Rev. Mr. Flanders;
your many private interviews with him have wonderfully impressed you in his favor!'

'Wretch, what do you mean?' stammered my mother in great confusion, and turning pale and red
alternately.

'You know very well what I mean, vile woman!' I cried, enraged beyond all power of restraining
my speech, and perfectly reckless of the consequences of what I was saying. 'I was a witness
of your infamous adultery with the hypocritical parson, and--'

'As I uttered these words, my mother gave a piercing scream, and flew at me with the fury of
a tigress. She beat me cruelly, tore my hair and clothes, and being a large and powerful woman,
I verily believe she would have killed me, had not my father, hearing the noise, rushed into
the room, and rescued me from her grasp. He demanded an explanation of this extraordinary scene,
and, in spite of the threatening looks and fierce denial of my mother, I told him all. He staggered
and almost fell to the floor, when I thus boldly accused her of the crime of adultery; clinging
to a chair for support, he faintly ejaculated--'My God, can this be true?'

'It is false--I call Heaven to witness, it is false!' exclaimed my wretched and guilty mother--then,
overcome by the terrors of the situation, she sank insensible upon the carpet. My father summoned
a servant to her assistance; and then bade me follow him into another room. Carefully closing
the doors, he turned to me with a stern aspect, and said, with much severity of tone and manner:

'Girl, you have made a serious charge against your mother; you have impugned her chastity and
her honor. Adultery is the most flagrant crime that can stain the holy institution of marriage.
If I believed your mother guilty of it, I would cast her off forever!'

'I laughed scornfully as he said this, whereupon he angrily demanded the cause of my ill-timed
mirth; and as I detested his hypocrisy, I boldly told him that it ill became him to preach
on the enormity of the crime of adultery, after having been guilty of that very offence with
his kitchen wench! He turned deadly pale at this unexpected retort, and stammered out--'Then
you know all--denial is useless.' I told him how I had witnessed the affair in the kitchen,
and reproached him bitterly for the infamous conduct. He admitted the justness of my rebuke,
and when I informed him that Mr. Flanders had attempted to debauch me, he foamed with rage,
and loaded the reverend libertine with epithets which were decidedly uncomplimentary. Still,
he doubted the story of my mother's crime--he could not believe her to be guilty of such baseness;
but he assured me that he should satisfy himself of her innocence or guilt, then left me, after
having made me promise not to expose him in reference to his affair with the servant girl in
the kitchen.

'Upon leaving me, my father immediately sought an interview with my mother, who by this time
had recovered from her swoon. She was in her chamber; but as I was naturally anxious to know
what might pass between my parents, under such unusual circumstances, I stationed myself at
the door of the room, as soon as my father had entered, and heard distinctly all that was said.'

CHAPTER III

Domestic Troubles--A Scene, and a Compromise--an Escape--various matters amative, explanatory
and miscellaneous, in the Tale of the Courtezan.

'Well, madam,' said my father, in a cold, severe tone--'this is truly a strange and serious
accusation which our daughter has brought against you. The crime of adultery, and with a Christian
minister!'

'Surely,' rejoined my mother, sobbing--'you will not believe the assertions of that young hussy.
I am innocent--indeed, indeed I am.'

'I am inclined to believe that you are innocent, and yet I never shall rest perfectly satisfied
until you prove yourself guiltless in this matter,' rejoined my father, speaking in a kinder
tone. 'Now listen to me,' he continued. 'I have thought of a plan by which to put your virtue,
and the purity of our pastor, to the test. I shall invite the reverend gentleman to dinner
this afternoon, after divine service; and when we have dined, you shall retire with him to
this room, for private prayer. You shall go first, and in a few minutes he shall follow you;
and I shall take care that no secret communication is held between you, in the way of whispering
or warnings of any kind, whether by word or sign. I will contrive means to watch you narrowly,
when you are with him in the chamber; and I caution you to beware of giving him the slightest
hint to be on his guard, for that would be a conclusive evidence of your guilt. He will of
course conduct himself as usual, not knowing that he is watched. If you are innocent, he will
pray or converse with you in a Christian and proper manner; but if you ever have had criminal
intercourse with him, he will, in all human probability, indicate the same in his language
and actions. This is most plain; and I trust that the result will clear you of all suspicion.'

'My mother knew it would be useless to remonstrate, for my father was unchangeable, when once
he had made up his mind to anything. She therefore was obliged to submit. Accordingly, Mr.
Flanders dined with us that day: once, during the meal, happening to look into his face, I
saw that he was gazing at me intently, and I was startled by the expression of his countenance:
for that expression was one of the deadliest hate. It was but for an instant, and then he turned
away his eyes; yet I still remember that look of bitter hatred. As soon as dinner was over,
my mother withdrew, and a few minutes afterwards my father said to the minister:

'Brother Flanders, I am going out for a short walk, to call upon a friend; meantime, I doubt
not that Mrs. ---- will be happy to hold sisterly and Christian communion with you. You will
find her in her chamber.'

'It is very pleasant, my brother,' responded the other--'to hold private and holy communion
with our fellow seekers after divine truth. These family visits I regard as the priceless privilege
of the pastor; by them the bond of love which unites him to his flock, is more strongly cemented.
I will go to my sister and we will pray and converse together.'

'Saying this, Mr. Flanders arose and left the room; he had scarcely time to ascend the stairs
and enter my mother's chamber, when my father quickly and noiselessly followed him, and entered
an apartment adjoining. He had previously made a small hole in the wall, and to this hole he
applied his eye. So rapid had been his movements, that the minister had just closed the door,
when he was at his post of observation; so that it was rendered utterly impossible for my mother
to whisper a word or make a sign, to caution her paramour against committing both her and himself.
I lost no time in taking up my position at the chamber door, and availed myself of the keyhole
as a convenient channel for both seeing and hearing. I saw that my mother was very pale and
seemed ill at ease, and I did not wonder at it, for her position was an extremely painful and
embarrassing one. She well knew that my father's eye was upon her, watching her slightest movement;
she knew, also, that the minister was utterly unaware of my father's espionage, and she had
good reason to fear that the reverend libertine would, as usual, begin the interview by amorous
demonstrations. Oh, how she must have longed to put him on his guard, and thereby save both
her honor and her reputation!--But she dare not.

'The minister seated himself near my unhappy mother, and opened the conversation as follows:

'Well, my dear Mrs. ----, I am sorry to inform you that I have tidings of an unpleasant nature
to communicate to you. We are discovered!'

'These fatal words were uttered in a low whisper; but yet I doubt not that my father had heard
them. I could see that my mother trembled violently--yet she spoke not a syllable.

'Yes,' continued the minister, all unconscious of the disclosure he was making to my father--'Your
daughter knows all. She suspected, it seems, the real object of our last interview, when, you
recollect, we indulged in a little amative dalliance.--On New Year's evening, during your absence,
I called here and saw your daughter, when she reproached me for having debauched you, stating
in what manner she had seen the whole affair. Since then, I have had no opportunity of informing
you that she knew our intimacy.'

'Still my mother uttered not a single word!'

'This girl,' continued the minister,'must be made to hold her tongue, somehow or other: it
would be dreadful to have it reach your husband's ears. Then he followed the gaze of the girl and feel embarrased about Zdenkos
small breast image were there are three fresh roses.Luisa held out
both hands and said,"are you done?".

"Always" he said, and the country became frustrated with his blush
and quickly promised to come.



'I retreated precipitately, and slipped into another room, while he opened the chamber; seeing
no-one on the outside, he closed it again, and locked it. I instantly resumed my station; and
I saw the minister approach my mother, (who appeared spell-bound,) and clasp her in his arms.
He was about to proceed to the usual extreme of his criminality when my father uttered an expression
of rage; I instantly ran into the room which had before served me as a hiding place, and in
a moment more my father was at the door of my mother's chamber, demanding admission. After
a short delay, the door was opened; and then a scene ensued which defies my powers of description.

''Tis needless to dwell upon the particulars of what followed. My father raved, the pastor
entreated, and my mother wept. But after an hour or so, the tempest subsided; the parties arriving
at the reasonable conclusion, that what was done could not be undone. Finally it was arranged
that Mr. Flanders should pay my father a considerable sum of money, upon condition that the
affair be hushed up.--My mother was promised forgiveness for her fault--and as I was the only
person likely to divulge the matter, it was agreed that I should be placed under restraint,
and not suffered to leave the house, until such time as I should solemnly swear never to reveal
the secret of the adultery.--Accordingly, for one month I remained a close prisoner in the
house, and at the end of that period, not feeling inclined to give the required pledge of secrecy,
I determined to effect my escape, and leave my parents forever.--The thought of parting from
them failed to produce the least impression of sadness upon my mind, for from the moment I
had discovered the secret of their guilty intrigues, all love and respect for them had ceased.
I knew it would be no easy matter for me to depart from the house unperceived, for the servant
wench, Janet, was a spy upon my actions; but one evening I contrived to elude her observation,
and slipping out of the door, walked rapidly away. What was to become of me, I knew not, nor
cared, in my joy at having escaped from such an abode of hypocrisy as my parents' house--for
of all the vices which can disgrace humanity, I regard hypocrisy as the most detestable.

'Fortunately, I had several dollars in my possession; and I had no difficulty in procuring
a boarding house. And now as my story must be getting tedious by its length, I will bring it
to a close in as few words as possible. I supported myself for some time by the labor of my
needle; but as this occupation afforded me only a slight maintenance, and proved to be injurious
to my health, I abandoned it, and sought some other employment. It was about that time that
I became acquainted with a young man named Frederick Archer, whose manners and appearance interested
me exceedingly, and I observed with pleasure that he regarded me with admiration. Our acquaintance
soon ripened into intimacy; we often went to places of amusement together, and he was very
liberal in his expenditures for my entertainment. He was always perfectly respectful in his
conduct towards me, never venturing upon any undue familiarity, and quite correct in his language.
One evening I accompanied him to the Bowery Theatre, and after the play he proposed that we
should repair to a neighboring 'Ladies Oyster Saloon,' and partake of refreshments. We accordingly
entered a very fashionable place, and seated ourselves in a small room, just large enough to
contain a table and sofa.--The oysters were brought, and also a bottle of champagne; and then
I noticed that my companion very carefully locked the door of the room. This done, he threw
his arms around me, and kissed me. Surprised at this liberty, which he had never attempted
before, I scolded him a little for his rudeness; and he promised not to offend again. We then
ate our oysters, and he persuaded me to drink some of the wine. Whether it contained a stimulant
powder, or because I had never drank any before, I know not; but no sooner had I swallowed
a glass of the sparkling liquid, than a strange dizzy sensation pervaded me--not a disagreeable
feeling, by any means, but rather a delightful one. She said while striding up and down, "I think we stay in this apartment.
And over "I forgot to talk to you, Rosalka. So you're with me now in service and under the old
conditions..
And over "I forgot to talk to you, Rosalka. So you're with me now in service and under the old
conditions.
Frederick's conquest was an honest one; I suffered him to do with me as he pleased, and he
soon initiated me into the voluptuous mysteries of Venus. I confess, I rather sought than avoided
this consummation--for my passions were in a tumult, which could only be appeased by full unrestrained
gratification.

