"Fear not!" said the good Giant. "Fear not I soon will release him. Let me take you in my hands,
and do you show me where to go."

"Are you sure you can hold me?" said the Princess, standing timidly upon the edge of the window.

"I guess so," said the Giant. "Just get into my hands."

And, taking her down gently, he set her on his arm, and then he took Ting-a-ling from her hair,
and placed him on the tip of his thumb. Thus they proceeded to the Tower of Tears.

"Here is the place," said the Princess. "Here is the horrid tower where my beloved is. Please
put me down a minute, and let me cry."

"No, no," said the Giant; "you have done enough of that, my dear, and we have no time to spare.
So, if this is your Prince's tower, just get in at the window, and tell him to come out quickly,
and I will take you both away without making any fuss."

"That is the window--the fourth-story one. Lift me up," said the Princess.

But though the Giant was very large, he was not quite tall enough for this feat, for they built
their towers very high in those days. So, putting Ting-a-ling and the Princess into his pocket,
he looked around for something to stand on. Seeing a barn near by, he picked it up, and placed
it underneath the window. He put his foot on it to try if it would bear him, and, finding it
would (for in those times barns were very strong), he stood upon it, and looked in the fourth-story
window. Taking his little friends out of his pocket, he put them on the window-sill, where
Ting-a-ling remained to see what would happen, but the Princess jumped right down on the floor.
As there was a lighted candle on the table, she saw that there was some one covered up in the bed.

"O, there he is!" said she. "Now I will wake him up, and hurry him away." But just at that
moment, as she was going to give the sleeper a gentle shake, she happened to perceive the yellow
boots sticking out from under the sheet.

"O dear!" said she in a low voice, "if he hasn't gone to bed with his boots on! And if I wake
him, he will jump right down on the floor, and make a great noise, and we shall be found out."

So she went to the foot of the bed, and pulled off the boots very gently.

"White stockings!" said she. "What does this mean? I know the Prince wore green stockings,
for I took particular notice how well they looked with his yellow boots. There must be something
wrong, I declare! Let me run to the other end of the bed, and see how it is there. O my! O
my!" cried she, turning down the sheet. "A woman's head! Wrong both ways! O what shall I do?"

Letting the sheet drop, she accidentally touched the head, which immediately rolled off on
to the floor.

"Loose! Loose!! Loose!!!" she screamed in bitter agony, clasping her hands above her head.
"What shall I ever do? O misery! misery me! Some demon has changed him, all but his boots.
O Despair! Despair!"

And, without knowing what she did, she rushed frantically out of the room, and along the dark
passage, and popped right down through the open trap.

"What's up?" said the Giant, putting his face to the window. "What's all this noise about?"

"O I don't know," said Ting-a-ling, almost crying, "but somebody's head is off; and it's a
lady--all but the boots--and the Princess has run away! O dear! O dear!"

"Come now!" said Tur-il-i-ra, "Ting-a-ling, get into my pocket. I must see into this myself,
for I can't be waiting here all night, you know."

So the Giant, still standing on the barn, lifted off the roof of the tower, and threw it to
some distance. He then, by the moonlight, examined the upper story, but, finding no Prince
or Princess, brushed down the walls until he came to the floor, and, taking it up, he looked
carefully over the next story. This he continued, until he had torn down the whole tower, and
found no one but servants and guards, who ran away in all directions, like ants when you destroy
their hills. He then kicked down all those walls which connected the tower with the rest of
the palace, and, when it was all level with the ground, he happened to notice, almost at his
feet, a circular opening like an entrance to a vault, from which arose a very pleasant smell
as of something good to eat. Stooping down to see what it was that caused this agreeable perfume,
he perceived that at the distance of a few yards the aperture terminated in a huge yellow substance,
in which, upon a closer inspection, he saw four feet sticking up--two with slippers, and two
with green stockings.

"Why, this is strange!" said he, and, stooping down, he felt the substance, and found it was
quite soft and yielding. He then loosened it by passing his hand around it, and directly lifted
it out almost entire.

"By the beard of the Prophet!" he cried, "but this is a cheese!" and, turning it over, he saw
on the other side two heads, one with short black hair, and the other covered with beautiful
brown curls.

"Why, here they are! As I'm a living Giant! these must be the Prince and Princess, stowed away
in a cheese!" And he laughed until the very hills cracked.

When he got a little over his merriment, he asked the imprisoned couple how they got there,
and if they felt comfortable. They replied that they had fallen down a trap, and had gone nearly
through this cheese, where they had stuck fast, and that was all they had known about it; and
if the blood did not run down into their heads so, they would be pretty comfortable, thank
him--which last remark the Giant accounted for by the fact, that, when lovers are near each
other, they do not generally pay much attention to surrounding circumstances.

"This, then," said he, rising, "is where the King hardens his cheeses, is it? Well, well, it's
a jolly go!" And he laughed some more.

"O Tur-il-i-ra," cried Ting-a-ling, looking out from the vest-pocket, "I'm so glad you've found
them."

"Well, so am I," said the Giant.

Then Tur-il-i-ra, still holding the cheese, walked away for a little distance, and sat down
on a high bank, intending to wait there until morning, when he would call on the King, and
confer with him in relation to his new-found treasure. Leaning against a great rock, the Giant
put the cheese upon his knees in such a manner as not to injure the heads and feet of the lovers,
and dropped into a very comfortable sleep.

"Don't I wish I could get my arms out!" whispered the Prince.

"O my!" whispered the Princess.

Ting-a-ling, having now nothing to occupy his mind, and desiring to stretch his legs, got out
of the vest-pocket where he had remained so safely during all the disturbance, and descended
to the ground to take a little walk. He had not gone far before he met a young friend, who
was running along as fast as he could.

"Hallo! Ting-a-ling," cried the other. "Is that you? Come with me, and I will show you the
funniest thing you ever saw in your life."

"Is it far?" said Ting-a-ling, "for I must be back here by daylight."

"O no! come on. It won't take you long, and I tell you, it's fun!"

So away they ran, merrily vaulting over the hickory-nuts, or acorns, that happened to be in
their way, in mere playfulness, as if they were nothing. They soon came to a large, open space,
so brightly lighted by the moon, that every object was as visible as if it were daylight. Scattered
over the smooth green were thousands of fairies of Ting-a-ling's nation, the most of whom were
standing gazing intently at a very wonderful sight.

Seated on a stone, under a great tree that stood all alone in the centre of this plain, was
a woman without any head. She moved her hands rapidly about over her shoulders, as if in search
of the missing portion of herself, and, encountering nothing but mere air, she got very angry,
and stamped her feet, and shrugged her shoulders, which amused the fairies very much, and they
all set up a great laugh, and seemed to be enjoying the fun amazingly. On one side, down by
a little brook, was a busy crowd of fairies, who appeared to be washing something therein.
Scattered all around were portions of the Tower of Tears, much of which had fallen hereabouts.

Ting-a-ling and his friend had not gazed long upon this scene before the sound of music was
heard, and in a few moments there appeared from out the woods a gorgeous procession. First
came a large band of music, ringing blue-bells and blowing honeysuckles. Then came an array
of courtiers, magnificently dressed; and, after them, the Queen of the fairies, riding in a
beautiful water-lily, drawn by six royal purple butterflies, and surrounded by a brilliant
body of lords and ladies.

This procession halted at a short distance in front of the lady-minus-a-head, and formed itself
into a semicircle, with the Queen in the centre. Then the crowd at the brook were seen approaching,
and on the shoulders of the multitude was borne a head. They hurried as fast as their heavy
load would permit, until they came to the tree under which sat the headless Nerralina, who,
bed and all, had fallen here, when the Giant tore down the tower. Then quickly attaching a
long rope (that they had put over a branch directly above the lady) to the hair of the head,
they all took hold of the other end, and, pulling with a will, soon hoisted the head up until
it hung at some distance above the neck to which it had previously belonged. Now they began
to lower it slowly, and the Queen stood up with her wand raised ready to utter the magic word
which should unite the parts when they touched. A deep silence spread over the plain, and even
the lady seemed conscious that something was about to happen, for she stood up and remained
perfectly still.

There was but one person there who did not feel pleasure at the approaching event, and that
was a dwarf about a foot high, very ugly and wicked, who, by some means or other, had got into
this goodly company, and who was now seated in a crotch of the tree, very close to the rope
by which the crowd was lowering the lady's head. No one perceived him, for he was very much
the color of the tree, and there he sat alone, quivering with spite and malice.

At the moment the head touched the ivory neck, the Queen, uttering the magic word, dropped
the end of the wand, and immediately the head adhered as firmly as of old.

But a wild shout of horror rang through all the plain! For, at the critical moment, the dwarf
had reached out his hand, and twisted the rope, so that when the head was joined, it was wrong
side foremost--face back!

Just then the little villain stuck his head out from behind the branch, and, giving a loud
and mocking laugh of triumph, dropped from the tree. With a yell of anger the whole crowd,
Queen, courtiers, common people, and all, set off in a mad chase after the dwarf, who fled
like a stag before the hounds.

All were gone but little Ting-a-ling, and when he saw the dreadful distress of poor Nerralina,
who jumped up, and twisted around, and ran backward both ways, screaming for help, he stopped
not a minute, but ran to where he had left the Giant, and told him, as fast as his breathing
would allow, the sad story.

Rubbing his eyes, Tur-il-i-ra perceived that it was nearly day, and concluded to commence operations.
He placed Ting-a-ling on his shirt-frill, where he could see what was going on, and, taking
about eleven strides, he came to where poor Nerralina was jumping about, and, picking her up,
put her carefully into his coat-tail pocket. Then, with the cheese in his hand, he walked slowly
toward the palace.

When he arrived there, he found the people running about, and crowding around the ruins of
the Tower of Tears. He passed on, however, to the great Audience Chamber, and, looking in,
saw the King sitting upon his throne behind a velvet-covered table, holding an early morning
council, and receiving the reports of his officers concerning the damage. As this Hall, and
the doors thereof, were of great size, the Giant walked in, stooping a little as he entered.

He marched right up to the King, and held the cheese down before him.

"Here, your Majesty, is your daughter, and the young Prince, her lover. Does your Majesty recognize
them?"

"Well, I declare!" cried the King. "If that isn't my great cheese, that I had put in the vault-flue
to harden! And my daughter and that young man in it! What does this mean? What have you been
doing, Giant?"

Then Tur-il-i-ra related the substance of the whole affair in a very brief manner, and concluded
by saying that he hoped to see them made man and wife, as he considered them under his protection,
and intended to see them safely through this affair. And he held them up so that all the people
who thronged into the Hall could see.

The people all laughed, but the King cried "Silence!" and said to the Giant, "If the young
man is of as good blood as my daughter, I have no desire to separate them. In fact, I don't
think I am separating them. I think it's the cheese!"

"Come! come!" said the Giant, turning very red in the face, "none of your trifling, or I'll
knock your house down over your eyes!"

And, putting the cheese down close to the table, he broke it in half, letting the lovers drop
out on the velvet covering, when they immediately rushed into each other's arms, and remained
thus clasped for a length of time.

They then slowly relinquished their hold upon each other, and were exchanging looks of supreme
tenderness, when the Prince, happening to glance at his feet, sprang back so that he almost
fell off the long table, and shouted,--

"Blood! Fire! Thunder! Where's my boots? Boots! Slaves! Hounds! Get me my boots! boots!! boots!!!"

"O! he's a Prince!" cried the King, jumping up. "I want no further proof. He's a Prince. Give
him boots. And blow, horners, blow! Beat your drums, drummers! Join hands all! Clear the floor
for a dance!"

And in a trice the floor was cleared, and about five thousand couples stood ready for the first
note from the band.

"Hold up!" cried the Giant. "Hold up! here is one I forgot," and he commenced feeling in his
pockets. "I know I have got her somewhere. O yes, here she is!" and taking the Lady Nerralina
from his coat-tail pocket, he put her carefully upon the table.

Every face in the room was in an instant the picture of horror,--all but that of the little
girl whose duty it was to fasten Nerralina's dress every morning,--who got behind the door,
and jumping up, and clapping her hands and heels, exclaimed, "Good! good! Now she can see to
fasten her own frock behind!"

The Prince was the first to move, and, with tears in his eyes, he approached the luckless lady,
who was sobbing piteously.

"Poor thing!" said he, and, putting his arm around her, he kissed her. What joy thrilled through
Nerralina! Dawned the horizon and the wind blew hot and humid, typical of spring and
overcast weather. The carriage rolled down the road, blowing clouds mud. It was an old pull carts
that once must have belonged to an individual. Obdulia was placed in the rear and P. Gil on the
front, as far as possible. Continued to show serious and taciturn, even more than before. The
young woman watched from the corner of the eye, and guessing what was happening in his spirit, remained
silent too, in a state of awe that give good indication of their mystical thoughts. To help her,
said after half quiet time:

- Father, we asked San Jose to protect us on our journey.

- True - replied the priest, whose eyes clear, blue, wandered lost through the landscape, beginning
to unmasked the dark cloak of night and left fresh and beautiful
and dripping yet his long bath.

- Will you pray it five Our Fathers?

The priest took off his hat in silence and quietly began to say the Our Father. Obdulia responded
with genuine excitement, too quietly. Were of the one and the other a soft whisper, discreet, without
knowing why thrill the soul of the young. He felt possessed of a strange languor of inner happiness,
which annihilated or induced sleep their thinking. The rumble of the wheels of the car and the
jingle of the mule contribute a dip in the rapture. When finished, it was a long time lost
in thought. For its like that prayer had not ever finished. He had scarcely reached the court-yard, when
the bells began to ring, the horns to blow, the drums to beat, and crowds of people to shout
and run in every direction, and there was never such a noise and hubbub before.

Ting-a-ling slipped along close to the wall, so that he would not be stepped on by anybody;
and having reached the palace, he climbed up a long trailing vine, into one of the lower windows.
There he saw the vast audience-chamber filled with people, shouting, and calling, and talking,
all at once. The grand vizier was on the wide platform of the throne, making a speech, but
the uproar was so great that not one word of it could Ting-a-ling hear. The King himself was
by his throne, putting on the bulky boots, which he only wore when he went to battle, and which
made him look so terrible that a person could hardly see him without trembling. The last time
that he had worn those boots, as Ting-a-ling very well knew, he had made war on a neighboring
country, and had defeated all the armies, killed all the people, torn down all the towns and
cities, and every house and cottage, and ploughed up the whole country, and sowed it with thistles,
so that it could never be used as a country any more. So Ting-a-ling thought that as the King
was putting on his war boots, something very great was surely about to happen. Hearing a fizzing
noise behind him, he turned around, and there was the Prince in the court-yard, grinding his
sword on a grindstone, which was turned by two slaves, who were working away so hard and fast
that they were nearly ready to drop. Then he knew that wonderful things were surely coming
to pass, for in ordinary times the Prince never lifted his finger to do anything for himself.

Just then, a little page, who had been sent for the King's spurs, and couldn't find them, and
who was therefore afraid to go back, stopped to rest himself for a minute against the window
where Ting-a-ling was standing. As his head just reached a little above the window-seat, Ting-a-ling
went close to his ear and shouted to him, to please tell him what was the matter. The page
started at first, but, seeing it was only a little fairy, he told him that the Princess was
lost, and that the whole army was going out to find her. Before he could say anything more,
the King was heard to roar for his spurs, and away ran the little page, whether to look again
for the spurs, or to hide himself, is not known at the present day. Ting-a-ling now became
very much excited. The Princess Aufalia, who had been married to the Prince but a month ago,
was very dear to him, and he felt that he must do something for her. But while he was thinking
what this something might possibly be, he heard the clear and distinct sound of a tiny bell,
which, however, no one but a fairy could possibly have heard above all that noise. He knew
it was the bell of the fairy Queen, summoning her subjects to her presence; and in a moment
he slid down the vine, and scampered away to the gardens. There, although the sun was shining
brightly, and the fairies seldom assembled but by night, there were great crowds of them, all
listening to the Queen, and keeping much better order than the people in the King's palace.
The Queen addressed them in soul-stirring strains, and urged every one to do their best to
find the missing Princess. In the night she had been taken away, while the Prince and everybody
were asleep. "And now," said the Queen, untying her scarf, and holding it up, "away with you,
every one! Search every house, garden, mountain, and plain, in the land, and the first one
who comes to me with news of the Princess Aufalia, shall wear my scarf!" And, as this was a
mark of high distinction, and conveyed privileges of which there is no time now to tell, the
fairies gave a great cheer (which would have sounded to you, had you heard it, like a puff
of wind through a thicket of reeds), and they all rushed away in every direction. Now, though
the fairies of this tribe could go almost anywhere, through small cracks and key-holes, under
doors, and into places where no one else could possibly penetrate, they did not fly, or float
in the air, or anything of that sort. When they wished to travel fast or far, they would mount
on butterflies and all sorts of insects; but they seldom needed such assistance, as they were
not in the habit of going far from their homes in the palace gardens. Ting-a-ling ran, as fast
as he could, to where a friend of his, whom we have mentioned before kept grasshoppers and
butterflies to hire; but he found he was too late,--every one of them was taken by the fairies
who had got there before him. "Never mind," said Ting-a-ling to himself, "I'll catch a wild
one;" and, borrowing a bridle, he went out into the meadows, to catch a grasshopper for himself.
He soon perceived one, quietly feeding under a clover-blossom. Ting-a-ling slipped up softly
behind him; but the grasshopper heard him, and rolled his big eyes backward, drawing in his
hind-legs in the way which all boys know so well. "What's the good of his seeing all around
him?" thought Ting-a-ling; but there is no doubt that the grasshopper thought there was a great
deal of good in it, for, just as Ting-a-ling made a rush at him, he let fly with one of his
hind-legs, and kicked our little friend so high into the air, that he thought he was never
coming down again. He landed, however, harmlessly on the grass on the other side of a fence.
Nothing discouraged, he jumped up, with his bridle still in his hand, and looked around for
the grasshopper. There he was, with his eyes still rolled back, and his leg ready for another
kick, should Ting-a-ling approach him again. But the little fellow had had enough of those
strong legs, and so he slipped along the fence, and, getting through it, stole around in front
of the grasshopper; and, while he was still looking backward with all his eyes, Ting-a-ling
stepped quietly up before him, and slipped the bridle over his head! It was of no use for the
grasshopper to struggle and pull back, for Ting-a-ling was astraddle of him in a moment, kicking
him with his heels, and shouting "Hi! Hi!"

Away sprang the grasshopper like a bird, and he sped on and on, faster than he had ever gone
before in his life, and Ting-a-ling waved his little sword over his head, and shouted "Hi! Hi!"

So on they went for a long time; and in the afternoon the grasshopper began to get very tired,
and did not make anything like such long jumps as he had done at first. They were going down
a grassy hill, and had just reached the bottom, when Ting-a-ling heard some one calling him.
Looking around him in astonishment, he saw that it was a little fairy of his acquaintance,
younger than himself, named Parsley, who was sitting in the shade of a wide-spreading dandelion. The duration of the operation, the future got nun in the
sale. Fr Gil remained outside, presence. Both of them were the object of great curiosity for the hostess,
for their children, for the mayoral and the boy's car. I just removed
the eye.

"Yes, I!" said Parsley; "and Sourgrass and I rode the same butterfly; but by the time we had
come this far, we got too heavy, and Sourgrass made me get off."

"And what are you going to do now?" said Ting-a-ling.

"O, I'm all right!" replied Parsley. "I shall have a butterfly of my own soon."

"How's that?" asked Ting-a-ling, quite curious to know.

"Come here!" said Parsley; and so Ting-a-ling got off his grasshopper, and led it up close
to his friend. "See what I've found!" said Parsley, showing a cocoon that lay beside him. "I'm
going to wait till this butterfly's hatched, and I shall have him the minute he comes out."

The idea of waiting for the butterfly to be hatched, seemed so funny to Ting-a-ling, that he
burst out laughing, and Parsley laughed too, and so did the grasshopper, for he took this opportunity
to slip his head out of the bridle, and away he went!

Ting-a-ling turned and gazed in amazement at the grasshopper skipping up the hill; and Parsley,
when he had done laughing, advised him to hunt around for another cocoon, and follow his example.

Ting-a-ling did not reply to this advice, but throwing his bridle to Parsley, said, "There,
you would better take that. You may want it when your butterfly's hatched. I shall push on."

"What! walk?" cried Parsley.

"Yes, walk," said Ting-a-ling. "Good-by."

So Ting-a-ling travelled on by himself for the rest of the day, and it was nearly evening when
he came to a wide brook with beautiful green banks, and overhanging trees. Here he sat down
to rest himself; and while he was wondering if it would be a good thing for him to try to get
across, he amused himself by watching the sports and antics of various insects and fishes that
were enjoying themselves that fine summer evening. The scorpion sometimes nothing
and other flies, chased by other fish is released, sostiénese in the air, and if you hunt the
birds, then plunges into the sea.

* * *

The popular proverb: "Happy as a fish in water," expresses
a truth.
There were spiders, who shot over the surface of the brook as if they had been skating; and
all sorts of beautiful bugs and flies were there,--green, yellow, emerald, gold, and black.
At a short distance, Ting-a-ling saw a crowd of little minnows, who had caught a young tadpole,
and, having tied a bluebell to his tail, were now chasing the affrighted creature about. But
after a while the tadpole's mother came out, and then the minnows caught it!

While watching all these lively creatures, Ting-a-ling fell asleep, and when he awoke, it was
dark night. He jumped up, and looked about him. The butterflies and dragon-flies had all gone
to bed, and now the great night-bugs and buzzing beetles were out; the katydids were chirping
in the trees, and the frogs were croaking among the long reeds. Not far off, on the same side
of the brook, Ting-a-ling saw the light of a fire, and so he walked over to see what it meant.
On his way, he came across some wild honeysuckles, and, pulling one of the blossoms, he sucked
out the sweet juice for his supper, as he walked along. When he reached the fire, he saw sitting
around it five men, with turbans and great black beards. Ting-a-ling instantly perceived that
they were magicians, and, putting the honeysuckle to his lips, he blew a little tune upon it,
which the magicians hearing, they said to one another, "There is a fairy near us." Then Ting-a-ling
came into the midst of them, and, climbing up on a pile of cloaks and shawls, conversed with
them; and he soon heard that they knew, by means of their magical arts, that the Princess had
been stolen the night before, by the slaves of a wicked dwarf, and that she was now locked
up in his castle, which was on top of a high mountain, not far from where they then were.

"I shall go there right off," said Ting-a-ling.

"And what will you do when you get there?" said the youngest magician, whose name was Zamcar.
"This dwarf is a terrible little fellow, and the same one who twisted poor Nerralina's head,
which circumstance of course you remember. He has numbers of fierce slaves, and a great castle.
You are a good little fellow, but I don't think you could do much for the Princess, if you
did go to her."

Ting-a-ling reflected a moment, and then said that he would go to his friend, the Giant Tur-il-i-ra;
but Zamcar told him that that tremendous individual had gone to the uttermost limits of China,
to launch a ship. It was such a big one, and so heavy, that it had sunk down into the earth
as tight as if it had grown there, and all the men and horses in the country could not move
it. So there was nothing to do but to send for Tur-il-i-ra. When Ting-a-ling heard this, he
was disheartened, and hung his little head. "The best thing to do," remarked Alcahazar, the
oldest of the magicians, "would be to inform the King and his army of the place where the Princess
is confined, and let them go and take her out."

"O no!" cried Ting-a-ling, who, if his body was no larger than a very small pea-pod, had a
soul as big as a water-melon. "If the King knows it, up he will come with all his drums and
horns, and the dwarf will hear him a mile off and either kill the Princess, or hide her away.
If we were all to go to the castle, I should think we could do something ourselves." This was
the longest speech that Ting-a-ling had ever made; and when he was through, the youngest magician
said to the others that he thought it was growing cooler, and the others agreed that it was.
After some conversation among themselves in an exceedingly foreign tongue, these kind magicians
agreed to go up to the castle, and see what they could do. So Zamcar put Ting-a-ling in the
folds of his turban, and the whole party started off for the dwarf's castle. They looked like
a company of travelling merchants, each one having a package on his back and a great staff
in his hand. When they reached the outer gate of the castle, Alcahazar, the oldest, knocked
at it with his stick, and it was opened at once by a shiny black slave, who, coming out, shut
it behind him, and inquired what the travellers wanted.

"Is your master within?" asked Alcahazar.

"I don't know," said the slave.

"Can't you find out?" asked the magician. Began to fall the first drops, but, after a while, everyone had to be collected to their homes.

He
had witnessed many storms, read a thousand descriptions of them,
and therefore did not believe have reason to amaze me.



"My friend," said Alcahazar, "don't you think that is rather a careless way of using a sword?
You might cut somebody."

"That's true," said the slave. "I didn't think of it before;" but he kept on striking away,
all the same.

"Then stop it!" said Alcahazar, the oldest magician, striking the sword from his hand with
one blow of his staff. Upon this, up stepped Ormanduz, the next oldest, and whacked the slave
over his head; and then Mahallah, the next oldest, struck him over the shoulders; and Akbeck,
the next oldest, cracked him on the shins; and Zamcar, the youngest, punched him in the stomach;
and the slave sat down, and begged the noble merchants to please stop. So they stopped, and
he humbly informed them that his master was in.

"We would see him," said Alcahazar.

"But, sirs," said the slave, "he is having a grand feast."

"Well," said the magician, "we're invited."

