According to climate puberty, the age when the human male becomes sexually perfect, varies
from ten to fifteen years. In the United States puberty in the male usually occurs at the age
of fourteen and a half years. In tropical climates it occurs at nine or ten, and in cold countries,
such as Norway and Siberia, it may not take place until eighteen or nineteen. Vigorous physical
exercise tends to delay puberty, anything exciting the emotions tends to hasten it. Stimulating
foods, pepper, vinegar, mustard, spices, tea and coffee, excess meat nutriment hasten puberty.
A cool, unstimulating vegetable and farinaceous diet may delay the development of the sexual
system several months or a year.

                   THE SIGNS AND CHANGES OF PUBERTY

In the boy the signs of puberty are the growth of hair on the skin covering the pubes and in
the armpits. Chest and arms broaden, the frame grows more angular, the masculine proportions
more pronounced. The vocal cords grow longer and lower the pitch of the voice. Hair grows on
chin, upper lip, cheeks, and often on the body surface.

                         THE SEXUAL MORAL LAW

The sexual moral law is the same for both sexes, and equally binding. It may be summed up as
follows: "Your sexual urges, instincts and desires should never consciously injure an individual
human being or mankind in general. They should be exercised to further the value and happiness
of both."

                  THE MALE ADOLESCENT AND CONTINENCE

The perfect carrying out of this general moral law implies continence on the part of the male
adolescent until marriage. Continence is positive restraint under all circumstances. Strict
continence is neither injurious to health, nor does it produce impotence. While self-denial
is difficult, since the promptings of nature often seem imperious, it is not impossible. It
is certain that no youth will suffer, physically, by remaining sexually pure. The demands which
occur during adolescence are mainly abnormal, due to the excitements of an overstimulating
diet, pornographic literature and art, and the temptations of impure association.

                        WHY YOUNG MEN GO WRONG

Foul thoughts, once they enter the mind, corrode it. The sensual glance, the bawdy laugh, the
ribald jest, the smutty story, the obscene song may be met with on street corner, in the car,
train, hotel lobby, lecture hall and workshop. Mental unchastity ends in physical unchastity.
The habit common to most adolescent boys and young men of relating smutty stories, repeating
foul jokes and making indecent allusions destroys respect for virtue. In addition there are
such direct physical causes of undue adolescent sexual excitement as constipation and alcoholism,
and such mental ones as nervous irritability.

To the constant discussion and speculation regarding sex and its mysteries by the adolescent
young male, must be added the artificial idea that idle prattling on the subject is a sign
of "manhood." Thus many young men whose natural trend is in the direction of decency and right
sexual living, "step out" or "go to see the girls," as the phrase is, because they think that
otherwise "they are not real men." More subtle in its evil effect, yet somewhat less dangerous
physically, perhaps, than the professional prostitute is the lure of the "hidden" prostitute,
who carefully conceals her derelictions, and publicly wraps herself in a mantle of virtue. 

                             (10/9.

'Annals and Magazine of Natural History' volume 8 1842 page 108.) The editor of the 'Botanical Register'
counted the ovules in the flowers of Wistaria sinensis, and carefully estimated the number of
pollen-grains, and he found that for each ovule there were 7000 grains.

(10/10. Quoted in 'Gardeners' Chronicle' 1846 page 771.) With Mirabilis, three or four of the
very large pollen-grains are sufficient to fertilise an ovule; but I do not know how many grains a
flower produces. With Hibiscus, Kolreuter found that sixty grains were necessary to fertilise all
the ovules of a flower, and he calculated that 4863 grains were produced by a single flower,
or eighty-one times too many. With Geum urbanum, however, according to Gartner, the pollen is
only ten times too much. (10/11. Kolreuter 'Vorlaufige Nachricht' 1761 page 9. Gartner 'Beitrage
zur Kenntniss' etc. page 346.) As we thus see that the open state of all ordinary flowers, and
the consequent loss of much pollen, necessitate the development of
so prodigious an excess of this precious substance, why, it may be
asked, are flowers always left open?

As many plants exist throughout the vegetable kingdom which bear cleistogene flowers, there can
hardly be a doubt that all open flowers might easily have been converted into closed ones.
The graduated steps by which this process could have been effected may be seen at the present
time in Lathyrus nissolia, Biophytum sensitivum, and several other plants.
 Men are principally responsible,
in one way or another, for the existence of the social evil. In the case of the young man,
abstention is the only cure for the probable results of indulging his animal passions by recourse
to the prostitute.

Prostitution, both public and private is the most dangerous menace to society at large. It
is the curse of individual young manhood because of the venereal diseases it spreads. "Wild
oats" sown in company with the prostitute usually bear fruit in the shape of the most loathsome
and destructive sex disorders.

The development of self-control, the avoidance of impure thoughts and associations, the cultivation
of the higher moral nature instead of the lower animal one, and, finally, marriage, should
prevent the young man from falling into prostitution. All the state and medical regulation
in the world will not protect him from the venereal diseases he is so apt to acquire by such
indulgence.

                               FREE LOVE

Free love is the doctrine of unrestrained choice, without binding ties, in sexual relations.
For altogether different reasons, however, it is quite as objectionable as prostitution for
the young man. It may offer better hygienic guarantees. But it is a sexual partnership which
is opposed to the fundamental institution of marriage, on which society in general is based
throughout the world. And, aside from the fact that it is a promiscuous relationship not sanctioned
by law or society, it is seldom practically successful. It cannot admit of true love without
bitter jealousies.

                              CHAPTER VI

                     SEX IN THE ADOLESCENT FEMALE

                      (FROM PUBERTY TO MATURITY)

Adolescence in the girl is the period when she develops into a woman. It is that stage in female
life embraced between the ages of twelve or fourteen and twenty-one years. Elasticity of body,
a clear complexion, and a happy control of her feelings should mark the young girl at this
time, if she has been so fortunate as to escape the dangers and baneful influences of childhood
and infancy. Her numerous bodily functions should be well performed. Thus constituted she should
be in a condition to take up her coming struggle with the world, and the sex problem it will
present.

                                PUBERTY

It has been noticed that in the case of girls, puberty usually occurs earlier in brunettes
than in blondes. In general, it makes its appearance earlier in those of a nervous or bilio-nervous
temperament than in those whose temperament is phlegmatic or lymphatic. In the United States
fourteen and a half years is the usual age of puberty in girls. In tropical lands, however,
it is not uncommon for a girl to be a mother at twelve. Country girls (and boys) usually mature
several months or a year later than those living in cities. Too early a puberty in girls may
well arouse concern. It usually indicates some inherent constitutional weakness. Premature
puberty is often associated with premature decay.

                   THE SIGNS AND CHANGES OF PUBERTY

In the girl the sign of puberty is the growth of hair about the pubes, private organs and armpits.
Her whole frame remains more slender than in the male. Muscles and joints are less prominent,
limbs more rounded and tapering. Internal and external organs undergo rapid enlargement, locally.
The mammæ (the breasts) enlarge, the ovaries dilate, and a periodical uteral discharge (menstruation)
is established.

                             MENSTRUATION

No young girl should feel alarmed if, owing to the negligence of her parents or guardians to
prepare her, she is surprised by this first flow from the genital organs. Puberty is the proper
time for the appearance of menstruation. This is the periodical development and discharge of
an ovule (one or more) by the female, accompanied by the discharge of a fluid, known as menses
or catamenia. Menstruation, in general good health, should occur about every twenty-eight days,
or once in four weeks. This rule, however, is subject to great variation. Menstruation continues
from puberty to about the forty-fifth year, which usually marks the menopause, or "change of
life." When it disappears a woman is no longer capable of bearing children. Her period of fertility
has passed. In rare cases menstruation has stopped at 35, or lasted till 60.

               HINTS FOR OBSERVANCE DURING MENSTRUATION

When the period arrives a girl or woman has a feeling of discomfort and lassitude, there is
a sense of weight, and a disclination for society. Menstruation should not, however, be regarded
as a nuisance; a girl's friends respect her most when she is "unwell." She should keep more
than usually quiet while the flow continues, which it will do for a few days. Also, she should
avoid all unnecessary fatigue, exposure to wet or to extremes of temperature. Some girls are
guilty of the crime of trying to arrest the menstruation flow, and resorting to methods of
stopping it. Why? In order to attend a dance or pleasure excursion! Lives have been lost by
thus suppressing the monthly flux. Mothers should instruct their daughters when the menses
are apt to begin, and what their function is. During menstruation great care must be taken
in using water internally. A chill is sufficient to arrest the flow. If menstruation does not
establish itself in a healthy or normal manner at the proper time, consult a physician in order
to remove this abnormal condition. Any disturbance of the delicate menstrual functions during
the period, by constrained positions, muscular effort, brain work and mental or physical excitement,
is apt to have serious consequences.

               CONTINENCE AND THE YOUNG ADOLESCENT GIRL

Continence is, as a rule more easily observed by the adolescent girl than by the adolescent
youth. Ordinarily the normal young girl has no undue sexual propensities, amorous thoughts
or feelings. Though she is exposed to the danger of meeting other girls who may be lewd in
thought and speech, in the houses of friends or at school, she is not apt to be carried away
by their example. Yet even a good, pure-minded young girl may be debauched. Especially during
adolescence, the easy observance of natural continence depends greatly on the proper functioning
of the feminine genital organs. These may be easily disturbed. The syringe used for injections,
for so-called purposes of cleanliness, is in reality a danger. The inner organs are self-cleansing.
Water or other fluids cast into them disorder the mucous follicles, and dry up their secretions,
preventing the flowing out of some of Nature's necessities. A daily washing of the inner organs
for a long period with water also produces chronic leucorrhea.

                         WHY YOUNG GIRLS FALL

Lack of proper early training, abnormal sex instincts, weak good nature, poverty, all may be
responsible for a young girl's moral downfall. As a general thing, right home training and
home environment, and sane sex education will prevent the normally good girl from going wrong.
It should be remembered, though, that a naturally more gentle and yielding disposition may
easily lead her into temptation. Girls who are sentimentally inclined should beware of giving
way to advances on the part of young men which have only one object in view: the gratification
of their animal passion.

The holding of hands and similar innocent beginnings often pave the way for more familiar caresses.
Passionate kisses--the promiscuous kiss, by the way, may be the carrier of that dread infection,
syphilis--violently awaken a young girl's sex instincts. The fact is that many innocent girls
idealize their seducers. They believe their lying promises, actually come to love them, and
think that in gratifying their inflamed desires, they are giving a proof of the depth and purity
of their own affection.

Here, as in the case of the young man, self-control should be the first thing cultivated. And
self-control should be made doubly sure by never permitting one of the opposite sex to show
undue familiarity. Many a seemingly innocent flirtation, begun with a kiss, has ended in shame
and disgrace, in loss of social standing and position, venereal disease, or even death. The
pure-minded and innocent girl often becomes a victim of her ignorance of the consequences entailed
by giving in to the desires of some male companion. The girl who has a knowledge of sex facts
is less apt to be taken advantage of in this manner.

             MODERN CONDITIONS WHICH ENCOURAGE IMMORALITY

Excessive Freedom.--The excessive freedom granted the young girl, especially since the World
War, must be held responsible for a great increase in familiarity between the adolescent youth
of both sexes. Many young girls of the "flapper" type, in particular, are victims of these
conditions of unrestrained sex association. Sex precocity is furthered in coeducational colleges,
in the high school and the home. Adolescents of both sexes too often are practically unhampered
in their comings and goings, their words and actions. The surreptitious pocket flask, filled
with "hooch," is often a feature of social parties, dances and affairs frequented by young
people. Girls and boys drink together, and as alcohol weakens moral resistance in the one case,
and stimulates desire in the other, deplorable consequences naturally result. In the United
States the number of girls "sent home" from colleges, and of high-school girls being privately
treated by physicians to save them from disgrace, is incredibly large.

Parents who do not control the social activities of their daughters, who permit them to spend
their evenings away from home with only a general idea of what they are doing or whom they
are meeting, need not be surprised if their morals are undermined.

The Auto.--The advent of the automobile is responsible for an easy and convenient manner of
satisfying precociously aroused sex instincts in young girls and boys. Often, unconscientious
pleasure-seekers roam the roads in their auto. They accost girls who are walking and offer
them a "lift." When the latter refuse to gratify their desires they are often beaten and flung
from the car. The daily press has given such publicity to this civilized form of "head hunting,"
that it is difficult to sympathize with girls who are thus treated. They cannot help but know
that in nine cases out of ten, a stranger who invites them to a ride, who "picks" them up,
does so with the definite purpose already mentioned in view.

Poverty.--Poverty, too, plays a large part in driving young girls into a life of vice. In all
our large cities there are hundreds of young women who earn hardly enough to buy food and fuel
and pay for the rent of a room in a cheap lodging house. Feminine youth longs for dress, for
company, for entertainment. It is easy enough to find a "gentleman friend" who will provide
all three, in exchange for "companionship." So the bargain is struck. These conditions exist
in a hundred and one occupations. A young woman may go to a large city as pure as snow, but
finding no lucrative employment, lonely and despondent, she is led to take her first step on
the downward path. Soon daily contact with vice removes abhorrence to it. Familiarity makes
it habitual, and another life is ruined. The heartless moral code of the cynical young pleasure-seeking
male is summed up in the cant phrase anent women: "Find, ... and forget!" It is these girls,
who are victimized by their lack of self-restraint or moral principle, their ignorance or weakness,
who make possible the application of such a maxim.

                               VIRGINITY

Both mental and physical purity are rightfully required of the young girl about to marry. How
shall she acquire and maintain this desirable state of purity? The process is a simple one.
She must let a knowledge of the true hygienic and moral laws of her sex guide her in her relations
with men. She must cultivate clean thought on a basis of physical cleanliness. She need not
be ignorant to be pure. Men she should study carefully. She should not allow them to sit with
their arm about her waist, to hold her hand, to kiss her. No approach nor touch beyond what
the best social observance sanctions should be permitted. Even the tendernesses and familiarities
of courtship should be restrained. An engagement does not necessarily culminate in a marriage,
and once the foot has slipped on virtue's path the error cannot be recalled. These considerations,
together with those adduced in the preceding section, "Why Young Girls Fall," are well worth
taking to heart by every young woman who wishes to approach matrimony in the right and proper way.

                              CHAPTER VII

                     SEX IN THE MARRIAGE RELATION

                              THE HUSBAND

Marriage is the process by which a man and woman enter into a complete physical, legal and
moral union. The natural object of marriage is the complete community of life for the establishment
of a family.

                  THE MARRIAGEABLE AGE AND ADAPTATION

At twenty-four the male body attains its complete development; and twenty-five is a proper
age for the young man to marry. Romantic love, personal affection on a basis of congeniality,
mutual adaptation, a similar social sphere of life, should determine his choice. Nature and
custom indicate that the husband should be somewhat older than the wife.

                       MEN WHO SHOULD NOT MARRY

Men suffering with diseases which may be communicated by contagion or heredity should not marry.
These diseases include: tuberculosis, syphilis, cancer, leprosy, epilepsy and some nervous
disorders, some skin diseases and insanity. A worn-out rake has no business to marry, since
marriage is not a hospital for the treatment of disease, or a reformatory institution for moral
lepers. Those having a marked tendency to disease must not marry those of similar tendency.
The marriage of cousins is not to be advocated. The blood relation tends to bring together
persons with similar morbid tendencies. Where both are healthy, however, there seems to be
no special liability to mental incompetency, though such marriages are accused of producing
defective or idiot children. Men suffering from congenital defects should not marry. Natural
blindness, deafness, muteness, and congenital deformities of limb are more or less likely to
be passed on to their children. There are cases of natural blindness, though, to which this
rule does not apply. Criminals, alcoholics, and persons disproportionate in size should not
marry. In the last-mentioned, lack of mutual physical adaptability may produce much unhappiness,
especially on the part of the wife. Serious local disease, sterility, and great risk in childbirth
may result. Disparity of years, disparity of race, a poverty which will not permit the proper
raising of children, undesirable moral character are all good reasons for not marrying.

                  MEDICAL EXAMINATION BEFORE MARRIAGE

Medical examination as a preliminary to marriage is practically more valuable than a marriage
license. Since many entirely innocent young girls to-day suffer from disease, incurred either
through hereditary or accidental infection, a would-be husband may be said to be quite as much
entitled to protection as his bride-to-be. I was so much astonished at this whole case, that
I tied string to the summits of the rods; the plants being thus allowed
to continue climbing upwards.

                             When their growth was complete they were untwined, stretched straight,
and measured.

                     The crossed plants had now almost regained their accustomed superiority,
as may be seen in Table 2/9.

                               

The average height of the eight crossed plants is here 113.25 inches, and that of the self-fertilised
plants 96.65, or as 100 to 85. Nevertheless two of the self-fertilised plants, as may be seen
in Table 2/9, were still higher than their crossed opponents. The latter manifestly had much
thicker stems and many more lateral branches, and looked altogether
more vigorous than the self-fertilised plants, and generally flowered
before them.

                             No man, no matter how good his reputation may be, should marry (on his own account
as well as that of the girl) without thorough examination by a physician. The consequences
of venereal infection administered to unborn children by their parents are too horrible to
allow of any risk being taken. Another bit of advice, which cannot be too highly commended,
is that the prospective husband and wife, before they marry, have a plain talk with each other
regarding individual sexual peculiarities and needs. A heart-to-heart talk of this kind would
be apt to prevent great disappointments and incompatibilities which otherwise may become permanent.

                       THE WIFE AND HER POSITION

The natural instinct of a man is to seek his mate. On her he depends for an orderly and lawful
indulgence of his sex demands. The greatest longevity and best health are to be found among
happily married fathers and mothers. No young woman should marry without a full knowledge of
her sex duties to her husband. And she should never consummate the marriage vow grudgingly.

                          CHILDBIRTH HYGIENE

Childbirth is the natural consequence of marriage. Its processes have already been explained
in Chapter II of this book. There are, however, some hygienic facts in connection with it which
should be noted. Once pregnancy is established, as soon as the fact is suspected, the mother-to-be
should look on the little embryo as already a member of the family. Every act of each parent
should now be performed (at least to some degree) with reference to the forthcoming infant.
The mother's thoughts should be directed to it as much as possible. Mentally she should read
literature of a lofty and ennobling character. The theory is that this serves a good purpose
in producing a more perfect, healthy and intelligent child. Physically, she should take plenty
of active exercise during gestation. Active exercise does not, of course, mean violent exercise.
And she should use a "Health Lift." During this time she should subsist as far as possible
on a farinaceous diet, fruits and vegetables. The foods should be plainly cooked, without spices.
If all else is as it should be, the birth of the child at the end of the customary nine months
will be attended by comparatively little pain and danger.

                HOW OFTEN SHOULD CHILDBIRTH TAKE PLACE?

It is most important that the childbearing wife and mother have a long period of rest between
births. At least one year should separate a birth and the conception following it. This means
that about two years should elapse between two births. If this rule be followed, the wife will
retain her health, and her children will also be healthy. It is far better to give birth to
seven children, who will live and be healthy, than to bear fourteen, of whom seven are likely
to die, while the numerous successive births wear out and age the unfortunate mother.

                        MATRIMONIAL ADJUSTMENT

The above paragraph deals with one detail of what might be called "matrimonial adjustment."
This adjustment or compromise is a feature of all successful marriages. The individual cravings
of husband and wife must be reconciled by mutual good will and forbearance if they are to be
happy. Attention should be paid in particular to not allowing habit, "the worst foe of married
happiness," to become too well established in the home, and to cultivate that love and affection
which survives the decline of the sexual faculties.

                          THE IDEAL MARRIAGE

The ideal marriage is the one in which affection combines to bring happiness to both partners
in a sane union of sex and soul. As one commentator has rather unhappily expressed it: "When
married the battle for one united and harmonious life really begins!" It is, indeed, but too
often a battle! Forbearance, consideration and respect must be the foundation on which the
ideal married state is built. The husband should realize that his wife's love for him induces
her to allow privileges of a personal nature which her innate chastity and timidity might otherwise
refuse. In return, he should accept these privileges with consideration. He should, in particular,
on his wedding night, take care not to shock his young bride's sensibilities. He may easily
give her a shock from which she will not recover for years, and lead her to form an antipathy
against the very act which is "the bond and seal of a truly happy married life."

                             BIRTH CONTROL

Material changes have taken place in the birth-rate of a number of countries during the past
fifteen or twenty years which cannot be attributed to purely economic causes. They do not seem
to depend on such things as trade, employment and prices; but on the spread of an idea or influence
whose tendency must be deplored, that of "birth control," a phrase much heard in these days.

