A Political Romance, Addressed To  , Esq; of York. To which is subjoined a KEY.

Ridiculum acri Fortius et melius magnas plerumque secat Res

YORK: Printed in the Year MDCCLIX. [Price ONE SHILLING.]

A POLITICAL ROMANCE, ETC.

SIR,

In my last, for want of something better to write about, I told you what a World of Fending
and Proving we have had of late, in this little Village of ours, about an old-cast-Pair-of-black-Plush-Breeches,
which John, our Parish-Clerk, about ten Years ago, it seems, had made a Promise of to one Trim,
who is our Sexton and Dog-Whipper.--To this you write me Word, that you have had more than
either one or two Occasions to know a good deal of the shifty Behaviour of this said Master
Trim,-- and that you are astonished, nor can you for your Soul conceive, how so worthless a
Fellow, and so worthless a Thing into the Bargain, could become the Occasion of such a Racket
as I have represented. An unversal carnage got, the Town encrusted
on attack and feft. Alone an humble circle by Trojans, below the bidding the Aeneas cared to deliver
themselves along escape and build an fresh house inwards Italy.

But, before I begin, I must first set you right in one very material Point, in which I have
misled you, as to the true Cause of all this Uproar amongst us;--which does not take its Rise,
as I then told you, from the Affair of the Breeches;--but, on the contrary, the whole Affair
of the Breeches has taken its Rise from it:--To understand which, you must know, that the first
Beginning of the Squabble was not between John the Parish-Clerk and Trim the Sexton, but betwixt
the Parson of the Parish and the said Master Trim, about an old Watch-Coat, which had many
Years hung up in the Church, which Trim had set his Heart upon; and nothing would serve Trim
but he must take it home, in order to have it converted into a warm Under-Petticoat for his
Wife, and a Jerkin for himself, against Winter; which, in a plaintive Tone, he most humbly
begg'd his Reverence would consent to.

I need not tell you, Sir, who have so often felt it, that a Principle of strong Compassion
transports a generous Mind sometimes beyond what is strictly right,--the Parson was within
an Ace of being an honourable Example of this very Crime;--for no sooner did the distinct Words--
Petticoat--poor Wife--warm--Winter strike upon his Ear, but his Heart warmed,--and, before
Trim had well got to the End of his Petition, (being a Gentleman of a frank and open Temper)
he told him he was welcome to it, with all his Heart and Soul. But, Trim, says he, as you see
I am but just got down to my Living, and am an utter Stranger to all Parish-Matters, know nothing
about this old Watch-Coat you beg of me, having never seen it in my Life, and therefore cannot
be a Judge whether 'tis fit for such a Purpose; or, if it is, in Truth, know not whether 'tis
mine to bestow upon you or not;--you must have a Week or ten Days Patience, till I can make
some Inquiries about it;--and, if I find it is in my Power, I tell you again, Man, your Wife
is heartily welcome to an Under-Petticoat out of it, and you to a Jerkin, was the Thing as
good again as you represent it.

It is necessary to inform you, Sir, in this Place, That the Parson was earnestly bent to serve
Trim in this Affair, not only from the Motive of Generality, which I have justly ascribed to
him, but likewise from another Motive; and that was by way of making some Sort of Recompence
for a Multitude of small Services which Trim had occasionally done, and indeed was continually
doing, (as he was much about the House) when his own Man was out of the Way. For all these
Reasons together, I say, the Parson of the Parish intended to serve Trim in this Matter to
the utmost of his Power: All that was wanting was previously to inquire, if any one had a Claim
to it;--or whether, as it had, Time immemorial, hung up in the Church, the taking it down might
not raise a Clamour in the Parish. These Inquiries were the very Thing that Trim dreaded in
his Heart--He knew very well that if the Parson should but say one Word to the Church- Wardens
about it, there would be an End of the whole Affair. For this, and some other Reasons not necessary
to be told you, at present, Trim was for allowing no Time in this Matter;--but, on the contrary,
doubled his Diligence and Importunity at the Vicarage-House;--plagued the whole Family to Death;--pressed
his Suit Morning, Noon, and Night; and, to shorten my Story, teazed the poor Gentleman, who
was but in an ill State of Health, almost out of his Life about it.

You will not wonder, when I tell you, that all this Hurry and Precipitation, on the Side of
Master Trim, produced its natural Effect on the Side of the Parson, and that was, a Suspicion
that all was not right at the Bottom.

He was one Evening sitting alone in his Study, weighing and turning this Doubt every Way in
his Mind; and, after an Hour and a half's serious Deliberation upon the Affair, and running
over Trim's Behaviour throughout,--he was just saying to himself, It must be so;--when a sudden
Rap at the Door put an End to his Soliloquy,--and, in a few Minutes, to his Doubts too; for
a Labourer in the Town, who deem'd himself past his fifty-second Year, had been returned by
the Constable in the Militia-List,--and he had come, with a Groat in his Hand, to search the
Parish Register for his Age.--The Parson bid the poor Fellow put the Groat into his Pocket,
and go into the Kitchen:--Then shutting the Study Door, and taking down the Parish Register,--Who
knows, says he, but I may find something here about this self-same Watch-Coat?--He had scarce
unclasped the Book, in saying this, when he popp'd upon the very Thing he wanted, fairly wrote
on the first Page, pasted to the Inside of one of the Covers, whereon was a Memorandum about
the very Thing in Question, in these express Words:

MEMORANDUM.

The great Watch-Coat was purchased and given above two hundred years ago, by the Lord of the
Manor, to this Parish-Church, to the sole use and Behoof of the poor sextons thereof, and their
Sucessors, for ever, to be Worn by them respectively in wintery cold Nights, in ringing Complines,
Passing-Bells, &c. which the said Lord of the manor had done, in Piety, to keep the poor Wretches
warm, and for the Good of his own Soul, for Which they were directed to pray, &c. &c. &c. &c.
Just Heaven! said the Parson to himself, looking upwards, What an Escape have I had! Give this
for an Under-Petticoat to Trim's Wife! I would not have consented to such a Desecration to
be Primate of all England; nay, I would not have disturb'd a single Button of it for half my
Tythes!

Scarce were the Words out of his Mouth, when in pops Trim with the whole Subject of the Exclamation
under both his Arms.--I say, under both his Arms;--for he had actually got it ripp'd and cut
out ready, his own Jerkin under one Arm, and the Petticoat under the other, in order to be
carried to the Taylor to be made up,--and had just stepp'd in, in high Spirits, to shew the
Parson how cleverly it had held out. March of
J. appointed Minister of War, he developed a special activity for the Danish military system,
different but in November from the ministry and resigned as a colonel in the private life,
had, however, as a member of the basic legislative assembly. For the first parliament in the
Thing people elected, he was one of the most significant pillars of the ministry. In 1854 he
became the Imperial Parliament and was appointed as the foremost leader of the Peasant Party in the
constitutional struggles significant share. He died 29th Juni 1874th He wrote "The assessment of
the constitutional crisis"

(1865).

Tschernomorskibezirk (district of the Black Sea), a province of the Russian government of Caucasus,
the Caucasus on Südabfall of the Kerch Strait to about the 38th Meridian located covers 5287
square km (96.03 SQM) with (1885) 22.932 inhabitants. This narrow, long strip of Ridge through
it, was once inhabited most of Circassian tribes, the are split due to a very terrain intersected
in a lot of subdivisions. After the emigration of the Circassians
to Turkey it was hoped the immigration of Russians; the same is, however,
is rare.

Novorossiysk and Anapa (sd) are the only cities.

Tschernomorzen, see Cossack, p. 110

Chernozem (Chernozem, "black earth"), extremely fertile black earth,
sometimes to 6 m thick, rich in phosphoric acid, potash and ammonia,
with 5-16 per cent organic matter, widespread in central and southern
Russia and in southern Siberia, provides without fertilization the
richest harvests (see humus, p. 796).

Texas similar kinds of soil are known. See Kostychev, The soils of the T. (Petersb. 1886, in Russian).

Chernyshev,
Russ Counts and princely family, which, in an older and a younger line blooms. For the latter
belonged to Grigory T., one of the ablest generals Peter the Great., B. 1672nd It was in 1742
by the Empress Elisabeth raised to the earldom, and died 30th July 1745th His eldest son, Count SacharT.,
Born 1705, Secretary of War under Catherine II commanded in the Seven Years War, a Russian
corps of about 20,000 men after the accession Emperor Peter III. T. in May 1762 received the
command to feed his corps to the Prussians, whereupon he, with Frederick the Great. united
in Burkersdorf on down, met with the Schweidnitz should cover. The king had already decided to attack
the enemy when the order arrived, that T. should immediately disconnect from the Prussian army.
At Frederick's request concealed However, the T. obtained command and remained with his army in Prussia,
now the Austrians threw back. T. later became President of the War College and Imperial Field
Marshal, died 1775th His brother, Count Ivan was, Russian Minister of Marine under Catherine
II and Paul I, A third brother, Peter Graf, Russian minister plenipotentiary at the Prussian
court in Frederick II and Louis XV in France. Graf Sachar, grandson of Count Ivan participated,
in the conspiracy of 14 December 1825, which is why he was exiled to Siberia. - The most notable
scion of the elder branch, Prince Alexander Ivanovich T., born 1779th He took part in the battle
of Austerlitz, and in the campaign of 1807, where he particularly at Friedland rendered very
essential services. He repeatedly appeared then as a diplomat in Paris. In the battles of Aspern
and Wagram in T. was on the side of Napoleon.

With the Weight of this Truth, and the great good Sense and strong Reason which accompanied
all the Parson said upon the Subject,--poor Trim was driven to his last Shift,--and begg'd
he might be suffered to plead his Right and Title to the Watch-Coat, if not by Promise, at
least by Services.--It was well known how much he was entitled to it upon these Scores: That
he had black'd the Parson's Shoes without Count, and greased his Boots above fifty Times:--That
he had run for Eggs into the Town upon all Occasions;--whetted the Knives at all Hours;--catched
his Horse and rubbed him down:--That for his Wife she had been ready upon all Occasions to
charr for them;--and neither he nor she, to the best of his Remembrance, ever took a Farthing,
or any thing beyond a Mug of Ale.--To this Account of his Services he begg'd Leave to add those
of his Wishes, which, he said, had been equally great.--He affirmed, and was ready, he said,
to make it appear, by Numbers of Witnesses, "He had drank his Reverence's Health a thousand
Times, (by the bye, he did not add out of the Parson's own Ale): That he not only drank his
Health, but wish'd it; and never came to the House, but ask'd his Man kindly how he did; that
in particular, about half a Year ago, when his Reverence cut his Finger in paring an Apple,
he went half a Mile to ask a cunning Woman, what was good to stanch Blood, and actually returned
with a Cobweb in his Breeches Pocket:--Nay, says Trim, it was not a Fortnight ago, when your
Reverence took that violent Purge, that I went to the far End of the whole Town to borrow you
a Close-stool,--and came back, as my Neighbours, who flouted me, will all bear witness, with
the Pan upon my Head, and never thought it too much."

Trim concluded his pathetick Remonstrance with saying, "He hoped his Reverence's Heart would
not suffer him to requite so many faithful Services by so unkind a Return:--That if it was
so, as he was the first, so he hoped he should be the last, Example of a Man of his Condition
so treated."--This Plan of Trim's Defence, which Trim had put himself upon,--could admit of
no other Reply but a general Smile. Of the other historians are especially popular Vladislaw K. Zap (d. 1870), Anton
Bocek (d. 1847) and Bede Dudik (b. 1815, "History of Moravia") designated to . Make A productive
activity on literary, linguistic and historical Area develops Jirecek Joseph (b. 1825), the
defender of the Queen Hofer handwriting. edited Individual epochs of Bohemian history Karl
deep trunk, Ms. Dworsky, Rezek, Ferd. Schulz, Quran, Bilek, inter alia, the history of Slavic
peoples W. Kriz (d. In these areas is Helianthemum salicifolium Pers. endures
as a sure sign of the presence of T. The crop in Syria and Palestine from mid February to
mid April, it depends on the rains in October and November, by which the herb cover is produced,
with their exuberance, the frequency of T. rises and falls. In Algeria, the above refers Terfezia
leonis in the shade the shrubby Helianthemum halimifolium, and searches on the Canary island
of Fuerteventura one truffles under Helianthemum canariense. The most common, used as an edible
truffles Species. Brumale Vittad Tuber, more or less spherical, black, on the surface polygonal
warts nut, a fist-size and then to 1 kg heavy, blackish ash-gray interior, white veined, with
numerous four-to sechssporigen asci, the spores with thorny Episporium, in winter in parts of
France and Italy, the truffle very often, rarely in the Rhine country. T. melanosporum Vittad. (T.
cibarium pers.), By way of previous reddish black Color, reddish spots on the War

871

Truffles - Trumpp.

zen and distinguished by a reddish-purple or black with white interior, last reddish veins has the
same occurrence. T. aestivum Vittad., 2.5 to 5.5 cm, irregularly globose, brown; with very large
nipples, inside pale brown, with elliptical, brown, with reticulate subscribed Episporium bearing
spores in the summer and late summer in France and in Italy very
often, places in Germany, for example, in Thuringia, and England.

Trim was one of those kind of Men who loved a Bit of Finery in his Heart, and would rather
have a tatter'd Rag of a Better Body's, than the best plain whole Thing his Wife could spin him.

John, who was naturally unsuspicious, made no more Difficulty of promising the Breeches, than
the Parson had done in promising the Great Coat; and, indeed, with something less Reserve,--because
the Breeches were John's own, and he could give them, without Wrong, to whom he thought fit.

It happened, I was going to say unluckily, but, I should rather say, most luckily, for Trim,
for he was the only Gainer by it;--that a Quarrel, about some six or eight Weeks after this,
broke out between the late Parson of the Parish and John the Clerk. Somebody (and it was thought
to be Nobody but Trim) had put it into the Parson's Head, "That John's Desk in the Church was,
at the least, four Inches higher than it should be:--That the Thing gave Offence, and was indecorous,
inasmuch as it approach'd too near upon a Level with the Parson's Desk itself." This Hardship
the Parson complained of loudly,--and told John one Day after Prayers, "He could bear it no
longer:--And would have it alter'd and brought down as it should be." John made no other Reply,
but, "That the Desk was not of his raising:--That 'twas not one Hair Breadth higher than he
found it;--and that as he found it, so would he leave it:--In short, he would neither make
an Encroachment, nor would he suffer one."

The late Parson might have his Virtues, but the leading Part of his Character was not Humility;
so that John's Stiffness in this Point was not likely to reconcile Matters.--This was Trim's
Harvest.

After a friendly Hint to John to stand his Ground,--away hies Trim to make his Market at the
Vicarage: What pass'd there, I will not say, intending not to be uncharitable; so shall content
myself with only guessing at it, from the sudden Change that appeared in Trim's Dress for the
better;--for he had left his old ragged Coat, Hat and Wig, in the Stable, and was come forth
strutting across the Church-yard, y'clad in a good creditable cast Coat, large Hat and Wig,
which the Parson had just given him.--Ho! Ho! Hollo! M., west of the 2139 m high T-pass of the Sierra Nevada, has sawmills and (1880) 1147 inh

Truck system (pronounced Tröckener, von engl. Truck, barter, barter trade "), the procedure, workers,
especially factory workers, not in cash but in kind, especially in statements be worthwhile
to the employer held Laden. In many cases of greedy manufacturers abused, was the same fierce fighting
earlier in England and mostly illegal. (The first fight against the T. law was passed in England
in 1464, came to the same in the following centuries, a number of [approximately 16] other
laws. The same was aside by the still existing law of 1831, which by the truck Amendment Act
of 16 Sept. 1887 was supplemented and extended. In general prohibition against Prussia in 1847,
while mining and the textile industry in the 16th Century occurred prohibitions ban in Belgium
by Act of 16 Aug. 1887.) The German Commercial Code requires the employer (originally only the factory
owners and those who drive with full-or semi-commercial, Since 1878, all tradesmen, see factory
legislation, S. 1002), the wages of their workers pay cash, they may not credit the same goods,
run counter contracts are void. Now there are clearly cases in which not to avoid the granting
of Natural History and is advantageous for the worker himself. Therefore, it was also allowed the
workers home, Feuerungsbedarf, land use, regular catering, medicines and medical assistance and tools
and substances to be drawn up by them under the brands of credit for the payment of wages the administering.
In Russia the T. in various forms is still widespread.

Trude, Trudenfuß, see Dryden, pentacle.

Trudpert, missionary in Breisgau is, of around 650 (for the very poor news) a Count Othbert in
a valley of the river Neumag a property to a spiritual foundation will have, but have been murdered
in the manufacture of the building.

Therefore, he was revered as a saint. See Korber, The spread of Christianity in the southern Baden (Heidelb.
1878).

Trueba (T. y la Quintana), Antonio de, Spanish poet and novelist, born 24 December 1821 in the
Basque Montellana village (province of Biscay) as the son of poor peasants, came with 15 years of
Madrid to learn the mercantile operation, by the way with great zeal
studies and obtained at the University of several degrees. Finally
in 1846 the trade stand Valet saying, he turned all the literary activity
and made by its appearing in magazines Songs and poems a name.

Now, you must know, this Pulpit-Cloth and Cushion were not in John's Gift, but in the Church-Wardens,
&c.--However, as I said above, that John was a leading Man in the Parish, Trim knew he could
help him to them if he would:--But John had got a Surfeit of him;--so, when the Pulpit-Cloth,
&c. were taken down, they were immediately given (John having a great Say in it) to William
Doe, who understood very well what Use to make of them.

As for the old Breeches, poor Mark Slender lived to wear them but a short Time, and they got
into the Possession of Lorry Slim, an unlucky Wight, by whom they are still worn;--in Truth,
as you will guess, they are very thin by this Time:--But Lorry has a light Heart; and what
recommends them to him, is this, that, as, thin as they are, he knows that Trim, let him say
what he will to the contrary, still envies the Possessor of them,--and, with all his Pride,
would be very glad to wear them after him.

Upon this Footing have these Affairs slept quietly for near ten Years,-- and would have slept
for ever, but for the unlucky Kicking-Bout; which, as I said, has ripp'd this Squabble up afresh:
So that it was no longer ago than last Week, that Trim met and insulted John in the public
Town- Way, before a hundred People;--tax'd him with the Promise of the old- cast-Pair-of-black-Breeches,
notwithstanding Trim's solemn Renunciation; twitted him with the Pulpit-Cloth and Velvet Cushion,--as
good as told him, he was ignorant of the common Duties of his Clerkship; adding, very insolently,
That he knew not so much as to give out a common Psalm in Tune.--

John contented himself with giving a plain Answer to every Article that Trim had laid to his
Charge, and appealed to his Neighbours who remembered the whole Affair;--and as he knew there
was never any Thing to be got in wrestling with a Chimney-Sweeper,--he was going to take Leave
of Trim for ever.--But, hold,--the Mob by this Time had got round them, and their High Mightinesses
insisted upon having Trim tried upon the Spot.--Trim was accordingly tried; and, after a full
Hearing, was convicted a second Time, and handled more roughly by one or more of them, than
even at the Parson's.

Trim, says one, are you not ashamed of yourself, to make all this Rout and Disturbance in the
Town, and set Neighbours together by the Ears, about an old-worn-out-Pair-of-cast-Breeches,
not worth Half a Crown?--Is there a cast-Coat, or a Place in the whole Town, that will bring
you in a Shilling, but what you have snapp'd up, like a greedy Hound as you are?

In the first Place, are you not Sexton and Dog-Whipper, worth Three Pounds a Year?--Then you
begg'd the Church-Wardens to let your Wife have the Washing and Darning of the Surplice and
Church-Linen, which brings you in Thirteen Shillings and Four Pence.--Then you have Six Shillings
and Eight Pence for oiling and winding up the Clock, both paid you at Easter.--The Pinder's
Place, which is worth Forty Shillings a Year,--you have got that too.--You are the Bailiff,
which the late Parson got you, which brings you in Forty Shillings more.--Besides all this,
you have Six Pounds a Year, paid you Quarterly for being Mole-Catcher to the Parish.--Aye,
says the luckless Wight above-mentioned, (who was standing close to him with his Plush Breeches
on) "You are not only Mole-Catcher, Trim, but you catch STRAY CONIES too in the Dark; and you
pretend a Licence for it, which, I trove, will be look'd into at the next Quarter Sessions."
I maintain it, I have a Licence, says Trim, blushing as red as Scarlet:--I have a Licence,--and
as I farm a Warren in the next Parish, I will catch Conies every Hour of the Night.--You catch
Conies! cries a toothless old Woman, who was just passing by.--

This set the Mob a laughing, and sent every Man home in perfect good Humour, except Trim, who
waddled very slowly off with that Kind of inflexible Gravity only to be equalled by one Animal
in the whole Creation,--and surpassed by none, I am,

SIR, Yours, &c. &c.

FINIS.

POSTSCRIPT.

I have broke open my Letter to inform you, that I miss'd the Opportunity of sending it by the
Messenger, who I expected would have called upon me in his Return through this Village to York,
so it has laid a Week or ten Days by me.

--I am not sorry for the Disappointment, because something has since happened, in Continuation
of this Affair, which I am thereby enabled to transmit to you, all under one Trouble.

When I finished the above Account, I thought (as did every Soul in the Parish) Trim had met
with so thorough a Rebuff from John the Parish- Clerk and the Town's Folks, who all took against
him, that Trim would be glad to be quiet, and let the Matter rest. 28. April 1828 at Ulm, belonged to 1864 the
Württemberg army and received the rank of major in 1879. He gave the Dislokationskarten German,
French and Russian armies out and took over on behalf of the German Anthropological Society
to design the prehistoric map of Germany and neighboring countries have appeared to date from which West
Germany and Switzerland. Also published the work he "finds the pre-Roman metal time statistics in
the Rhine area" (Stuttgart 1884), a prehistoric map of Swabia and a map of the distribution
of the tools of jade, Jadeite and Chloromelanite. T. is also on the staff in the official order issued
by Paul Work, "The art and antiquity monuments in the Kingdom of Württemberg.
 After this Trim dropp'd the Affair of the Breeches, and begun a fresh
Dispute about the Reading- Desk, which I told you had occasioned some small Dispute between
the late Parson and John, some Years ago.

This Reading-Desk, as you will observe, was but an Episode wove into the main Story by the
Bye;--for the main Affair was the Battle of the Breeches and Great Watch-Coat.--However, Trim
being at last driven out of these two Citadels,--he has seized hold, in his Retreat, of this
Reading-Desk, with a View, as it seems, to take Shelter behind it.

I cannot say but the Man has fought it out obstinately enough;--and, had his Cause been good,
I should have really pitied him. For when he was driven out of the Great Watch-Coat,--you see,
he did not run away;--no, --he retreated behind the Breeches;--and, when he could make nothing
of it behind the Breeches,--he got behind the Reading-Desk.--To what other Hold Trim will next
retreat, the Politicians of this Village are not agreed.--Some think his next Move will be
towards the Rear of the Parson's Boot;--but, as it is thought he cannot make a long Stand there,--others
are of Opinion, That Trim will once more in his Life get hold of the Parson's Horse, and charge
upon him, or perhaps behind him. But as the Horse is not easy to be caught, the more general
Opinion is, That, when he is driven out of the Reading-Desk, he will make his last Retreat
in such a Manner as, if possible, to gain the Close-Stool, and defend himself behind it to
the very last Drop. If Trim should make this Movement, by my Advice he should be left besides
his Citadel, in full Possession of the Field of Battle;--where, 'tis certain, he will keep
every Body a League off, and may pop by himself till he is weary: Besides, as Trim seems bent
upon purging himself, and may have Abundance of foul Humours to work off, I think he cannot
be better placed.

But this is all Matter of Speculation.--Let me carry you back to Matter of Fact, and tell you
what Kind of a Stand Trim has actually made behind the said Desk.

"Neighbours and Townsmen all, I will be sworn before my Lord Mayor, That John and his nineteen
Men in Buckram, have abused me worse than a Dog; for they told you that I play'd fast and go-loose
with the late Parson and him, in that old Dispute of theirs about the Reading-Desk; and that
I made Matters worse between them, and not better." Robespierre had
to flee T. due to the Directory. He joined the Council of Elders together with Bigot-PrÃ©meneu and
Mullevill Portalis, the editors of the New Civil Code. He became President of the Court of
Cassation and in 1801 he was transfered into the Senate Conservation. He died on the 10th March
1806 in Tronchiennes, in the Belgian province of East Flanders located
in the Gent Region.

There was the Ghent-Bruges Railway and a large factory in Trodheim City (4957
Inhabitants in 1988) Tronto (ancient Truentus) KustenfluB located in central
Italy rises in the mountains of Campotosto in the Province of L'Aquila
The River Lye flows at first north, then east and takes in the Ascoli
Castellano.

Martino is in Sicuro and small vessels can nagivate from there and
take a course 88km to the Adriatic Sea.

Troon the seaside city Ayrshire, Scotland had a harbour and exported large amounts of carbon.
Troon had 2383 inhabitants. 53 fishing boats were located in the port in 1888.

Tropaeolaceae dicotylednous is member of the American Plant family of the
order of Gruinales. It is distinguished by its flowers and eight zygomorphe
stamens and three compartments containing ovaries. It is related to
the family of Tropaeolin s. azo dyes and Phenylfarbstoffe


THE KEY.

This Romance was, by some Mischance or other, dropp'd in the Minster- Yard, York, and pick'd
up by a Member of a small Political Club in that City; where it was carried, and publickly
read to the Members the last Club Night.

It was instantly agreed to, by a great Majority, That it was a Political Romance; but concerning
what State or Potentate, could not so easily be settled amongst them.

