The thills of a broken-down buggy supplied this, but the flames had already reached Miss Brown.
Being a girl of a good deal of nerve and physical courage, however, she tore off her outer
clothing with her own hands. Lured by the bright sunshine, a stranger enters the door. He sits
and chats awhile with the inmates. His talk is pleasant, and as he converses a cloud falls upon
the house, the sunshine becomes darkened, and the dwellers within
the pretty cottage shiver as with cold. Dennis
tried the rope, found it would sustain his weight; then, bringing into use an art learned in
his college gymnasium, he over-handed rapidly till he stood at Miss Brown's side. Drawing up
the rope he fastened her to it and lowered her to the ladder, where Bill Cronk caught her,
and in a moment more she was in her father's arms, who at once shielded her from exposure with
his overcoat. Dennis followed the rope down, and had hardly got away before the building fell in.

"Is not this Mr. Fleet?" asked Miss Brown.

"Yes."

"How can we ever repay you?"

"By learning to respect honest men, even though they are not rich, Miss Brown."

"Did you know who it was when you saved me?"

"Yes."

"Mr. Fleet, I sincerely ask your pardon."

But before Dennis could reply they were compelled to fly for their lives.

Mr. Brown shouted as he ran, "Call at the house or place of business of Thomas Brown, and the
money will be ready."

But Thomas Brown would have found it hard work to rake a thousand dollars out of the ashes
of either place the following day. The riches in which he trusted had taken wings.

Cronk and Dennis kept together for a short distance, and the latter saw that his friend had
been drinking. Their steps led them near a large liquor-store which a party of men and boys
were sacking. One of these, half intoxicated, handed Bill a bottle of whiskey, but as the drover
was lifting it to his lips Dennis struck it to the ground. Cronk was in a rage instantly.

"What the ---- did you do that for?" he growled.

"I would do that and more too to save your life. If you get drunk to-night you are a lost man,"
answered Dennis, earnestly.

"Who's a-goin' ter get drunk, I'd like ter know? You feel yer oats too much to-night. No man
or horse can kick over the traces with me;" and he went off in the unreasoning anger of a half-drunken
man. But he carried all his generous impulses with him, for a few minutes after, seeing a man
lying in a most dangerous position, he ran up and shook him, crying, "I say, stranger, get
up, or yer ribs will soon be roasted."

"Lemme 'lone," was the maudlin answer. "I've had drink 'nuff. 'Tain't mornin' yet."

"Hi, there!" cried a warning voice, and Cronk started back just in time to escape a blazing
wall that fell across the street. The stupefied man he had sought to arouse was hopelessly
buried. Cronk, having got out of danger, stood and scratched his head, his favorite way of
assisting reflection.

"That's just what that young critter Fleet meant. What a cussed ole mule I was to kick up so!
Ten chances to one but it will happen to me afore mornin'. Look here, Bill Cronk, you jist
p'int out of this fiery furnace. You know yer failin', and there's too long and black a score
agin you in t'other world for you to go to-night;" and Bill made a bee line for the west side.

Struggling off to windward through the choked streets for a little distance, Dennis ascended
the side stairs of a tall building, in order to get more accurately the bearings of the fire.
He now for the first time realized its magnitude, and was appalled. It appeared as if the whole
south side must go. At certain points the very heavens seemed on fire. The sparks filled the
air like flakes of fiery snow, and great blazing fragments of roofs, and boards from lumber
yards, sailed over his head, with the ill-omened glare of meteors. The rush and roar of the
wind and flames were like the thunder of Niagara, and to this awful monotone accompaniment
was added a Babel of sounds--shrieks, and shouts of human voices, the sharp crash of falling
buildings, and ever and anon heavy detonations, as the fire reached explosive material. As
he looked down into the white upturned faces in the thronged streets, it seemed to him as if
the people might be gathering for the last great day. Above all the uproar, the court-house
bell could be heard, with its heavy, solemn clangor, no longer ringing alarm, but the city's knell.

But he saw that if he reached his own little room in time to save anything he must hasten.
His course lay near the Art Building, the place so thronged with associations to him. An irresistible
impulse drew him to it. It was evident that it must soon go, for an immense building to the
southwest, on the same block, was burning, and the walls were already swaying.

Suddenly a man rushed past him, and Mr. Ludolph put his pass key in the side door.

"Mr. Ludolph, it is not safe to enter," said Dennis.

"What are you doing here with your ill-omened face?" retorted his old employer, turning toward
him a countenance terrible in its expression. As we have seen, anything that threatened Mr.
Ludolph's interests, even that which most men bow before, as sickness and disaster, only awakened
his anger; and his face was black with passion and distorted with rage.

The door yielded, and he passed in.

"Come back, quick, Mr. Ludolph, or you are lost!" cried Dennis at the door.

"I will get certain papers, though the heavens fall!" yelled back the infuriated man, with an oath.

Dennis heard an awful rushing sound in the air. He drew his hat over his face as he ran, crouching.
Hot bricks rained around him, but fortunately he escaped.

When he turned to look, the Art Building was a crushed and blazing ruin. Sweet girlish faces
that had smiled upon him from the walls, beautiful classical faces that had inspired his artist
soul, stern Roman faces, that had made the past seem real, the human faces of gods and goddesses
that made mythology seem not wholly a myth, and the white marble faces of the statuary, that
ever reminded him of Christine, were now all blackened and defaced forever. But not of these
he thought, as he shudderingly covered his eyes with his hands to shut out the vision; but
of that terrible face that in the darkness had yelled defiance to Heaven.

CHAPTER XLIII

"CHRISTINE, AWAKE! FOR YOUR LIFE!"

Dennis was too much stunned and bewildered to do more than instinctively work his way to the
windward as the only point of safety, but the fire was now becoming so broad in its sweep that
to do this was difficult. The awful event he had witnessed seemed partially to paralyze him;
for he knew that the oath, hot as the scorching flames, was scarcely uttered before Mr. Ludolph's
lips were closed forever. He and his ambitious dream perished in a moment, and he was summoned
to the other world to learn what his proud reason scoffed at in this.

For a block or more Dennis was passively borne alone by the rushing mob. Suddenly a voice seemed
to shout almost in his ear, "The north side is burning!" and he started as from a dream. The
thought of Christine flashed upon him, perishing perhaps in the flames. He remembered that
now she had no protector, and that he for the moment had forgotten her; though in truth he
had never imagined that she could be imperilled by the burning of the north side.

In an agony of fear and anxiety he put forth every effort of which he was capable, and tore
through the crowd as if mad. There was no way of getting across the river now save by the La
Salle Street tunnel. Into this dark passage he plunged with multitudes of others. It was indeed
as near Pandemonium as any earthly condition could be. Driven forward by the swiftly pursuing
flames, hemmed in on every side, a shrieking, frenzied, terror-stricken throng rushed into
the black cavern. Every moral grade was represented there. Those who led abandoned lives were
plainly recognizable, their guilty consciences finding expression in their livid faces. These
jostled the refined and delicate lady, who, in the awful democracy of the hour, brushed against
thief and harlot. Little children wailed for their lost parents, and many were trampled underfoot.
Parents cried for their children, women shrieked for their husbands, some praying, many cursing
with oaths as hot as the flames that crackled near. Multitudes were in no other costumes than
those in which they had sprung from their beds. Altogether it was a strange, incongruous, writhing
mass of humanity, such as the world had never looked upon, pouring into what might seem, in
its horrors, the mouth of hell.

As Dennis entered the utter darkness, a confused roar smote his ear that might have appalled
the stoutest heart, but he was now oblivious to everything save Christine's danger. With set
teeth he put his shoulder against the living mass and pushed with the strongest till he emerged
into the glare of the north side. Here, escaping somewhat from the throng, he made his way
rapidly to the Ludolph mansion, which to his joy he found was still considerably to the windward
of the fire. But he saw that from the southwest another line of flame was bearing down upon it.

The front door was locked, and the house utterly dark. He rang the bell furiously, but there
was no response. He walked around under the window and shouted, but the place remained as dark
and silent as a tomb. He pounded on the door, but its massive thickness scarcely admitted of
a reverberation. 

This 'sarkhara is the same word as sugar; it was called in Latin saccharum, and we still speak
of saccharine juice, which is sugar juice.'

It may appear, on a
closer inspection at this point, that it is Professor Müller who is
deceived, and not the common verdict, both in respect to the question
whether such words as thunder, sucré, etc., really do or do not have
some inherent and organic relation in the Human Mind to the ideas
of rumbling noise and sweetness respectively; and in respect to the
value and significance of the fact.

He has, it would seem, confounded two separate and distinct questions. 1st. Is there such a relation
between the sound and the sense? and 2d. Were these words introduced into speech because of that
resemblance?
 He broke the pane of glass nearest it, hoping
that the crash might awaken Christine, if she were still there. But after the clatter died
away there was no sound. He then noisily raised the sash and stepped in.

What a rush of memories came over him as he looked around the familiar place! There was the
spot on which he had stood and asked for the love that he had valued more than life. There
stood the easel on which, through Christine's gifted touch, his painted face had pleaded with
scarcely less eloquence, till he blotted it out with his own hand. In memory of it all his
heart again failed him, and he sighed, "She will never love me."

But there was no time for sentiment. He called loudly: "Miss Ludolph, awake! awake! for your life!"

There was no answer. "She must be gone," he said. The front room, facing toward the west, he
knew to be her sleeping-apartment. Going through the passage, he knocked loudly, and called
again; but in the silence that followed he heard his own watch tick, and his heart beat. He
pushed the door open with the feeling of one profaning a shrine, and looked timidly in. Even
in that thrilling hour of peril and anxiety, his eye was enraptured by the beauty of the room.
Not only was it furnished with the utmost luxuriance, but everything spoke of a quaint and
cultured taste, from the curious marble clock and bronze on the mantel, even to the pattern
of the Turkey carpet on which the glare of the fire, as it glinted through the shutters, played
faintly. One of the most marked features, however, was an exquisite life-size statue of Diana
at the foot of the bed, grasping her bow with one hand, and in the act of seizing an arrow
with the other, as if aroused to self-defence. When Dennis first saw it, he was so startled
by its lifelike attitude that he stepped back into the passage. But, with all the beauty of
the room, it was utterly pagan; not a single thing suggested Christian faith or a knowledge
of the true God. With the exception of its modern air, it might just as well have been the
resting-place of a Greek or Roman maiden of rank.

Reassured, he timidly advanced again, and then for the first time, between the two marble statuettes
holding back the curtains of the bed, saw Christine, but looking more white and deathlike than
the marble itself.

She lay with her face toward him. Her hair of gold, unconfined, streamed over the pillow; one
fair round arm, from which her night-robe had slipped back, was clasped around her head, and
a flickering ray of light, finding access at the window, played upon her face and neck with
the strangest and most weird effect.

So deep was her slumber that she seemed dead, and Dennis, in his overwrought state, thought
that she was. For a moment his heart stood still, and his tongue was paralyzed. A distant explosion
aroused him. Approaching softly he said, in an awed whisper (he seemed powerless to speak louder),
"Miss Ludolph!--Christine!"

But the light of the coming fire played and flickered over the still, white face, that never
before had seemed so strangely beautiful.

"Miss Ludolph!--Oh, Christine, awake!" cried Dennis, louder.

To his wonder and unbounded perplexity, he saw the hitherto motionless lips wreathe themselves
into a lovely smile, but otherwise there was no response, and the ghostly light played and
flickered on, dancing on temple, brow, and snowy throat, and clasping the white arm in wavy
circlets of gold. It was all so weird and strange that he was growing superstitious, and losing
faith in his own senses. He could not know that she was under the influence of an opiate, and
that his voice of all others could, like a faint echo, find access to her mind so deeply sunk
in lethargy.

But a louder and nearer explosion, like a warning voice, made him wholly desperate; and he
roughly seized her hand, determining to dispel the illusion, and learn the truth at once.

Christine's blue eyes opened wide with a bewildered stare; a look of the wildest terror came
into them, and she started up and shrieked, "Father! father!"

Then turning toward the as yet unknown invader, she cried, piteously: "Oh, spare my life! Take
everything; I will give you anything you ask, only spare my life."

She evidently thought herself addressing a ruthless robber.

Dennis retreated toward the door the moment she awakened; and this somewhat reassured her.

In the firm, quiet tone that always calms excitement he replied, "I only ask you to give me
your confidence, Miss Ludolph, and to join with me, Dennis Fleet, in my effort to save your life."

"Dennis Fleet! Dennis Fleet! save my life! Oh, ye gods, what does it all mean?" and she passed
her hand in bewilderment across her brow, as if to brush away the wild fancies of a dream.

"Miss Ludolph, as you love your life arouse yourself and escape! The city is burning!"

"I don't believe it!" she cried, in an agony of terror and anger. "Leave the room! How dare
you! You are not Dennis Fleet; he is a white man, and you are black! You are an impostor! Leave
quick, or my father will come and take your life! Father! father!" 

But, although the proportion of simple chemical elements, in the real constitution of things,
is small, as compared with that of compound substances; yet it is only by our ability to separate
compound substances into these elements that we arrive at an understanding of their true character
and place in the realm of Matter.

So it is only by our ability to analyze roots--the compound constituents
of Language--into the prime elements which have, except rarely, no
distinctive and individual embodiment in it, that we can hope to gain
a clear comprehension of the nature of Language itself, or of its
most primitive concrete or composite foundations.

Comparative Philology furnishes us with admirable guidance--so far as it goes.
 "I am not worthy of this, but now that I know
you, I do trust you from the depth of my soul!"

"Prove it then by doing just as I bid you," he replied, in a voice so firm and prompt that
it seemed almost stern. Retreating to the door, he continued: "I give you just five minutes
in which to make your toilet and gather a light bundle of your choicest valuables. Dress in
woollen throughout, and dress warmly. I will see that the servants are aroused. Your father
is on the south side, and cannot reach you. You must trust in God and what I can do for you."

"I must trust to you alone," she said. "Please send my maid to me."

Mr. Ludolph had sipped his wine during the evening, and his servants had sipped, in no dainty
way, something stronger, and therefore had not awakened readily. But the uproar in the streets
had aroused them, and Dennis found them scuttling down the upper stairs in a half-clad state,
each bearing a large bundle, which had been made up without regard to meum and tuum.

"Och, murther! is the world burning up?" cried the cook.

"Be still, ye howlin' fool," said the cool and travelled maid. "It's only von big fire!"

"Go to your mistress and help her, quick!" cried Dennis.

"Go to my meestress! I go to de street and save my life."

"Oh, Janette!" cried Christine. "Come and help me!"

"I am meeserable zat I cannot. I must bid mademoiselle quick adieu," said the heartless creature,
still keeping up the veneer of French politeness.

Dennis looked through the upper rooms and was satisfied that they were empty. Suddenly a piercing
shriek from Christine sent him flying to her room. As he ran he heard her cry, "Oh, Mr. Fleet!
come! help!"

To go back a little (for on that awful night events marched as rapidly as the flames, and the
experience of years was crowded into hours, and that of hours into moments), Christine had
sought as best she could to obey Dennis's directions, but she was sadly helpless, having been
trained to a foolish dependence on her maid. She had accomplished but little when she heard
a heavy step in the room. Looking up, she saw a strange man regarding her with an evil eye.

"What do you want?" she faltered.

"You, for one thing, and all you have got, for another," was the brutal reply.

"Leave this room!" she cried, in a voice she vainly tried to render firm.

"Not just yet," he answered, with a satanic grin. She sought to escape by him with the loud
cry that Dennis heard, but the ruffian planted his big grimy hand in the delicate frill of
her night-robe where it clasped her throat, and with a coarse laugh said: "Not so fast, my dainty!"

Trembling and half fainting (for she had no physical courage), she cried for Dennis, and never
did knightly heart respond with more brave and loving throb to the cry of helpless woman than
his. He came with almost the impetus of a thunderbolt, and the man, startled, looked around,
and catching a glimpse of Dennis's blazing eyes, dropped his hold on Christine, and shrank
and cowered from the blow he could not avert. Before his hand could instinctively reach the
pistol it sought, there was a thud, and he fell like a log to the floor. Then, springing upon
him, Dennis took away his weapons, and, seizing him by the collar of his coat, dragged him
backward downstairs and thrust him into the street. Pointing his own pistol at him, he said,
"If you trouble us again, I will shoot you like a dog!"

The villain slunk off, and finding some kindred spirits sacking a liquor-store not far off,
he joined the orgy, seeking to drown his rage in rum, and he succeeded so effectually that
he lay in the gutter soon after. The escaping multitude trampled over him, and soon the fire
blotted out his miserable existence, as it did that of so many who rendered themselves powerless
by drink.

When Dennis returned he found Christine panting helplessly on a chair.

"Oh, dress! dress!" he cried. "We have not a moment to spare."

The sparks and cinders were falling about the house, a perfect storm of fire. The roof was
already blazing, and smoke was pouring down the stairs.

At his suggestion she had at first laid out a heavy woollen dress and Scotch plaid shawl. She
nervously sought to put on the dress, but her trembling fingers could not fasten it over her
wildly throbbing bosom. Dennis saw that in the terrible emergency he must act the part of a
brother or husband, and springing forward he assisted her with the dexterity he had learned
in childhood.

Just then a blazing piece of roof, borne on the wings of the gale, crashed through the window,
and in a moment the apartment, that had seemed like a beautiful casket for a still more exquisite
jewel, was in flames.

Hastily wrapping Christine in the blanket shawl, he snatched her, crying and wringing her hands,
into the street.

Holding his hand she ran two or three blocks with all the speed her wild terror prompted; then
her strength began to fail, and she pantingly cried that she could run no longer. But this
rapid rush carried them out of immediate peril, and brought them into the flying throng pressing
their way northward and westward. Wedged into the multitude they could only move on with it
in the desperate struggle forward. But fire was falling about them like a meteoric shower.

Suddenly Christine uttered a sharp cry of pain. She had stepped on a burning cinder, and then
realized for the first time, in her excitement, that her feet were bare.

"Oh, what shall I do?" she cried piteously, limping and leaning heavily on Dennis's arm.

"Indeed, Miss Ludolph, from my heart I pity you."

"Can you save me? Oh, do you think you can save me?" she moaned, in an agony of fear.

"Yes, I feel sure I can. At any rate I shall not leave you;" and taking her a little out of
the jostling crowd he kneeled and bound up the burned foot with his handkerchief. A little
further on they came to a shoe-store with doors open and owners gone. Almost carrying Christine
into it, for her other foot was cut and bleeding, he snatched down a pair of boy's stout gaiters,
and wiping with another handkerchief the blood and dust from her tender little feet, he made
the handkerchiefs answer for stockings, and drew the shoes on over them.

In the brief moment so occupied, Christine said, with tears in her eyes: "Mr. Fleet, how kind
you are! How little I deserve all this!"

He looked up with a happy smile, and she little knew that her few words amply repaid him.

There was a crash in the direction of the fire. With a cry of fear, Christine put out her hands
and clung to him.

"Oh, we shall perish! Are you not afraid?"

"I tremble for you, Miss Ludolph."

"Not for yourself?"

"No! why should I? I am safe. Heaven and mother are just beyond this tempest."

"I would give worlds for your belief." "Come, quick!" cried he, and they joined the fugitives,
and for a half-hour pressed forward as fast as was possible through the choked streets, Dennis
merely saying an encouraging word now and then. Suddenly she felt herself carried to one side,
and falling to the ground with him. In a moment he lifted her up, and she saw with sickening
terror an infuriated dray-horse plunging through the crowd, striking down men, women, and children.

"Are you hurt?" he asked, gently, passing his arm around her and helping her forward, that
they might not lose a single step.

"Awful! Awful!" she said, in a low, shuddering tone.

The dreadful scenes and the danger were beginning to overpower her.

A little further on they reached an avenue to the northwest through which Dennis hoped to escape.
But they could make but little headway through the dense masses of drays, carriages, and human
beings, and at last everything came to a deadlock. Their only hope was to stand in their place
till the living mass moved on again.

Strange, grotesque, and sad beyond measure were the scenes by which they were surrounded. By
the side of the aristocratic Christine, now Baroness Ludolph, stood a stout Irishwoman, hugging
a grunting, squealing pig to her breast. A little in advance a hook-nosed spinster carried
in a cage a hook nosed parrot that kept discordantly crying, "Polly want a cracker." At Dennis's
left a delicate lady of the highest social standing clasped to her bare bosom a babe that slept
as peacefully as in the luxurious nursery at home. At her side was a little girl carrying as
tenderly a large wax doll. A diamond necklace sparkled like a circlet of fire around the lady's
neck. Her husband had gone to the south side, and she had had but time to snatch this and her
children. A crowd of obscene and profane rowdies stood just behind them, and with brutal jest
and coarse laughter they passed around a whiskey-bottle. One of these roughs caught a glimpse
of the diamond necklace, and was putting forth his blackened hand to grasp it, when Dennis
pointed the captured pistol at him and said, "This is law now!"

The fellow slunk back.

Just before them was a dray with a corpse half covered with a blanket. The family sat around
crying and wringing their hands, and the driver stood in his seat, cursing and gesticulating
for those in advance to move on. Some moments passed, but there was no progress. Dennis became
very anxious, for the fire was rapidly approaching, and the sparks were falling like hail.
Every few moments some woman's dress was ablaze, or some one was struck by the flying brands,
and shrieks for help were heard on every side. Christine, being clad in woollen, escaped this
peril in part. She stood at Dennis's side trembling like a leaf, with her hands over her face
to shut out the terrible sights.

At last the driver, fearing for his life, jumped off his dray and left all to their fate. But
a figure took his place that thrilled Dennis's heart with horror.

There on the high seat stood Susie Winthrop--rather Mrs. Leonard. The light of insanity glowed
in her eyes; her long hair swept away to the north, and turning toward the fiery tempest she
bent forward as if looking for some one. But after a moment she sadly shook her head, as if
she had sought in vain. Mind acts upon matter and matter reacts upon mind. You have made the
house a partner to the deed you have committed by constantly associating
it with the act.

    You have tainted its walls and poisoned
     it within and without.
     
     "It becomes sentient and reacts upon you.

At this moment a blazing brand fell upon the horses' heads; they startled forward, and the
crazed lady fell over on the corpse below. The animals being thoroughly terrified turned sharp
around on the sidewalk, and tore their way right toward the fire, trampling down those in their
track, and so vanished with their strangely assorted load.

Dennis, fearing to stay any longer where he was, determined to follow in their wake and find
a street leading to the north less choked, even though it might be nearer the fire, and so
with his trembling companion he pressed forward again.

