"Real silence, the best kind, is always full of sound; and of course we only make the very
best kind," they explained proudly.  "Anybody can make the other kind of silence by taking
the air and sifting out the noise in it.  Now, we take the air, and when we have sifted out
the noise we fill it with sound.  That's a very different thing.  The worst of it is," they
added, sadly, "there is so little demand for real silence.  We have layers of it piled up at
the top, of those pine trees, and nobody ever wants it.  The other silence is so much cheaper,
you see, and most people don't know the difference."

"When I am grown up and have a house of my own," said Martin, "I shall come and ask you to
fill it with the very best silence for me."

The pine dwarfs shook their little brown heads incredulously.

"Wait till you are grown up," they said; "and then, if you will let us fill one room for you,
we shall be quite satisfied.  Now, set off on your journey; and if you want to escape being
made into conversation, you must not speak a single word until you reach the valley where the
Wonderful Toymaker lives."

"Trust me!" laughed Martin.  "It is only talking that is difficult; any one can keep silent."

"Very well; be careful, only be careful!" they sighed; and in another moment they had all gone
back to their pine trees, and nothing was to be heard except the distant sounds with which
they were filling the silence.

Then Martin walked on until he came to the rushing waterfall; and along by the side of the
stream he trudged and thought it was the very noisiest stream he had ever come across, for
it clattered over the stones, and splashed up in the air, and seemed bent on getting through
life with as much fuss and excitement as it was possible to make.  As he walked along by its
side, he discovered that the noise it made was caused by millions of little voices, chattering
and gossiping, quarrelling and laughing, as busily as they could.

"This must be the country where they make conversation," thought Martin.  "Well, I must be
pretty careful not to let them know I can talk."  At the same time, the longer he walked by
that talkative little stream the easier it was to forget the silence in the pine wood; and
he began to think that, after all, one silent room would be quite enough in the house he was
going to have some day.  Presently, there were not only voices in the stream beside him but
all around him as well, in the trees, and the flowers, and the grass, and the air; and they
were not the pretty little voices of the fairies which he knew so well, but they were the harsh,
shrill, unpleasant voices of unpleasant people, who must have spent their lives in chattering
about things that did not concern them.  Then the voices came closer and closer to him, and
buzzed up round his head, and shrieked into his ears, asking him dozens and dozens of questions,
until it was all he could do not to shout at them to leave him alone.

"Who are you?  Where do you come from?  What do you want?  Where are you going?  What are you
doing here?  Why don't you answer?  How did you get here?  Whom did you meet on the way?  Did
they tell you anything interesting?  What is your name?  How old are you?  Who is your father?
What is your mother like?  Does she give parties?  Does she invite many people?  Do you know
the King?  Have you been to court? Does the Queen dress well?  Do you like jam or cake best?
What is your favourite sweet?  Don't you think we are very amusing?" etc., etc., etc.

These were only a few of the questions they asked Martin, but they quite cured him of any wish
to speak; and, instead of telling them anything about himself, he just put his hands over his
ears and ran as fast as he could until he dropped down, very much out of breath, some way further
along the stream.  As he sat there, delighted at having escaped from all those impertinent
voices, a curious little fish with a bent back popped his head above the water and nodded to him.

"Good morning," said the fish.  His tone was so friendly that Martin forgot all about the warning
of the pine dwarfs, and entered into conversation with him.

"This is a strange country," said Martin.

"It's a very busy country," answered the fish.  "None of us get left alone for long; and as
for me, I never get any peace at all.  If I could only get my tail into my mouth, things would
be very different."

"You look as though you had been trying a good deal," observed Martin. "I suppose that is why
your back is so bent."

"Bent?" cried the fish, angrily.  "Nothing of the sort!  On the contrary, it has a most elegant
curve.  It's not the shape I complain about, it's the difference in the work.  You see, if
I could only get my tail into my mouth I should be a Full-stop; and Full-stops have so little
to do nowadays that I should be able to retire at once.  Being a Comma is quite another matter;
it's work, work, work, from year's end to year's end.  Hullo!  What is it now?"

His last remark was addressed to another fish, who seemed to have succeeded in getting his
tail into his mouth, and who spoke very huskily in consequence.

"Come along," he said to the Comma-fish; "you 've got to help me to make a Semi-colon."

"Oh, dear, oh, dear!" replied the other.  "I do wish Colons were more used; it would at least
give me a rest and use up some of you Full-stops for a change."

Martin was just going to sympathise with the poor little overworked Comma-fish, when the storm
of voices he had left behind suddenly managed to overtake him; and there they were once more,
buzzing round his head and shrieking in his ears, until he was almost deafened by the noise;
while dozens of invisible hands were lifting him from the ground and carrying him along at
a terrific pace. 

They will not stop, for liberty is fearless and the current of freedom is irresistible.

But in the early Anglo-Saxon Commonwealth, the rights, liberties, and privileges of the citizen
were not as broad and full as we find them to-day. The spirit of liberty was weak at first,
but her demands grew apace with her strength. Neither by the generosity of princes, nor by the
wisdom of legislation, were the ordinary English rights of free citizenship
enlarged and established. There was everything
in it that a boy could want; if he pulled a golden cord, down fell a shower of chocolate creams;
if he went to the strawberry ice room, there was a wooden spade for him to dig it out with,
and a wheelbarrow in which to bring it away; if he wanted a present, he had only to turn on
the present-tap and out came whatever he wished for.  So he immediately wished for a six-bladed
knife, a real pony, and a gold watch.  For all that, he was not a bit happy.  The incessant
talking around him never ceased for a moment; the air seemed packed with people whom he never
saw, but who asked him innumerable questions which he never attempted to answer.  Besides this,
all the furniture talked as well.  When he opened the door it made remarks about the way he
did it, which were not at all polite.  If he sat on the arm of a chair, it pointed out to him
in a hurt tone that chairs were not intended to be used in that way.  When he cut his name
on the mahogany dining-table, it shouted abuse at him until he had to paint over the letters
to appease it.  The windows chatted pleasantly about the weather when the wind blew, instead
of rattling; and the fires gossiped when they were lighted, instead of crackling and smoking.
He gave up riding his pony after it had told him the history of its childhood for the fifteenth
time; and when he found that his gold watch was always telling stories instead of telling the
time he had to get rid of that too.  As for his six-bladed knife, it wearied him so much by
telling him the same thing six times over that he threw it out of the window as far as he could.
All this was excessively trying to a boy who had never talked much in the whole of his life;
and the worst of it was that he was prevented by magic from running away; so the four weeks
came to an end, and he had not found a new toy for the Princess Petulant.

Meanwhile, the little Princess had been waiting, and waiting, and waiting.  In all the eight
years of her life she had never waited so patiently for anything; and the affairs of the country
went on quite smoothly in consequence.  When, however, the four weeks were over and Martin
did not return with her new toy, Princess Petulant grew tired of being good, and, once more,
she lay on the nursery floor and sobbed; and, once more, there was consternation in the royal
household.  So the King called another council.

"Haven't you got any more sons?" he demanded crossly of the Prime Minister.  The Prime Minister
shook his head, and owned sadly that he had only one son.

"Then why do you lose him?" said the King, still more crossly.  "Does no one know where the
Prime Minister's son has gone?"

The councillors looked helplessly at one another.  One thought that Martin had gone to Fairyland;
another said it was to Toyland; and a third declared he must be with the wymps at the back
of the sun.  But, as nobody knew how to get to any of these places, the suggestions of his
councillors only made the King more annoyed than before.  At last, he asked the Queen's advice;
and the Queen proposed that the little Princess should attend the council and explain why she
was crying. However, when they sent up to the royal nursery for the Princess Petulant, there
was no Princess to be seen; and the royal nurses were rushing everywhere in great confusion,
trying to find her.

"It is a most extraordinary thing," cried the King, "that we cannot keep anybody in the place!
What is the use of children who do nothing but lose themselves?  There must be wympcraft in this!"

The Queen only said "Poor children!" and set to work to have the country searched for the missing
pair, and sat down to cry by herself until they could be found.

What had really happened was quite simple.  While the Princess Petulant was sobbing on the
nursery floor, something came through the open window and dropped with a thud just in front
of her.  This astonished her so much, that she stopped crying and looked up to see what it
was. There stood a little pine dwarf, holding his hands to his ears.

"Dear, dear!" crooned the pine dwarf in his soft voice.  "What are you making such a noise for?"

"I am crying because Martin has not come back," said the Princess, sorrowfully.  "He promised
to fetch me a new toy, and he has never broken his promise before.  I do wish he would come
back.  Even if he does n't bring me a new toy, I wish he would come back."

"Ah," said the pine dwarf, smiling, "now I think I can help you.  But you must not cry any
more; it is almost as bad as the noise they are making in the country where Martin is imprisoned."

"Oh!" cried Princess Petulant, clapping her hands; "do you really know where Martin is?"

"Come along with me and see," said the pine dwarf.  The next thing the Princess knew was that
she was gliding through the air in the most delicious manner possible; and she never stopped
until she found herself by the side of the waterfall, that stands at the edge of the country
where they make conversation.

"I cannot take you any further," said the pine dwarf; "because there is so much noise down
there that it would blow me into little pieces at once.  Follow the stream along until it brings
you to a glass palace, and there you will find Martin waiting for you.  Whatever you do, though,
you must not speak a word to any one until you find him.  Do you think you can do this?"

The Princess was thoughtful for a whole minute.

"I can do it if I stop up my ears with cotton wool," she said.  "I am quite certain I should
speak if I heard any one talking to me."

The pine dwarf smiled again; and a linnet, who had overheard their conversation, kindly offered
the Princess a piece of cotton wool from the nest he was making; and she thanked him as charmingly
as a Princess should, and immediately stuffed it into her two little pink ears.  Then she kissed
her hand to the good little pine dwarf, and ran away along the stream; and she never stopped
running until she reached the magnificent, glittering glass palace; and there she saw Martin
right in the middle of it, sitting at the table with his head in his hands.

"I do believe he is crying!" thought Princess Petulant; and she very nearly cried too at the
mere thought of it, for no one had ever seen the Prime Minister's son cry before.  She picked
up a stone instead, however, and sent it right through the glass wall of the palace,--for she
was in far too great a hurry to go round to the door,--and she made a hole large enough to
slip through; and into the room she bounded, where Martin sat thinking about her.

They kissed each other a great many times; and Martin pulled the cotton wool out of her two
little pink ears, and told her all that had happened, and how miserable he had been because
he could not keep his promise to her, and how dreadfully tired he was of conversation.

"Even now," he added, sadly, "I don't suppose they will let me go with you.  Just listen to
their stupid voices!  I shall have to bear that for the rest of my life."

"Oh, no, you won't!" buzzed the voices in the air.  "You can go away as soon as you like. 
It is quite hopeless to think of making you into conversation; you are the most unconversational
prisoner we have ever captured.  If the Princess had not put cotton wool in her ears we should
have caught her directly; and what splendid conversation she would have made!  Unfortunately,
she is out of our power now, because she reached you without speaking a word; so you can go
off together as soon as you like."

They did not wait to be told twice, but set off at once, hand in hand, and walked straight
on until they reached the top of the hill that slopes down into the valley where the Wonderful
Toymaker lives.  Then they ran a race down the side of the hill; and of course Martin allowed
the Princess to win, so she was the first, after all, to see the most wonderful toyshop in
the world.  It was so wonderful that she actually remained speechless with astonishment, until
Martin caught her up; and then they stood side by side and stared at it.

To begin with, it was not a toyshop at all.  The whole of the valley was strewn with toys:
they lay on the ground in heaps, they were piled high up on the rocks, they hung from the trees
and made them look like huge Christmas trees, and they covered the bushes like blossoms: wherever
the children looked, they saw toys, toys, toys.  And such toys, too!  People who have never
been to Fairyland can have no idea of the toys that are made by the Wonderful Toymaker; even
Martin, who was a friend of the fairies, had never seen anything like them before.  As for
the Princess Petulant--her large blue eyes were open, and her little round mouth was open,
and she could not have spoken a word to please anybody.

Then, suddenly, into the middle of it all stepped the Wonderful Toymaker.  Any one who has
lived for thousands and thousands of years might reasonably be expected to look old, but the
Wonderful Toymaker looked young enough to play with his own toys; when he laughed, the children
felt that they should never feel unhappy again; and when he came running towards them, turning
coach-wheels on the way, they felt certain that he was only a very little older than themselves.
For that is what happens when a man has been making toys for thousands and thousands of years.

"My dear children, how pleased I am to see you!" he cried joyfully. "At last, I shall have
some one to play with!  Come and look at my two new tops."

He took them by the hands and raced them across the valley to his workshop, which was strewn
with gold and silver tools with handles made of rubies; and he took up a gaily painted top
and set it spinning by blowing gently upon it three times.  As it spun it began to hum a tune,
and in the tune they could hear every sound that the world contains,--birds singing and wind
whistling, children laughing and children crying, people talking and people quarrelling, pretty
sounds and ugly sounds, one after another, until the children were spellbound with astonishment.

"Oh, oh!" cried Princess Petulant, as the top rolled over on its side. "I never heard anything
so beautiful before."

"The top is yours, since you like it," said the Wonderful Toymaker, handing it to her with
a bow.  "Now listen to my other new top."

Then he took up another one, made of burnished copper, and gave it a twist with his fingers,
and it began to spin with all its might; and as it spun round, the song it sang was one that
could never be described, for it was full of the sounds that do not exist at all, the sounds
that are only to be heard in Fairyland when we are lucky enough to go there. It made the Princess
Petulant feel sleepy; but Martin gave a shout of pleasure when it stopped spinning.

"I like that one much better," he said.

"It is the finest toy I have ever made," said the Wonderful Toymaker; "and it is yours because
you know how to appreciate it.  Now, we will play games!"

They had never played such games in their lives before, nor had they ever had such a delightful
playfellow.  He put such feelings of joy and happiness into their hearts that the little Princess
wondered how she could ever have felt discontented, and Martin never once wanted to stop and
dream.  They played with toys that would not break, however badly they were treated; they chased
one another over the rocks and through the bushes, without getting out of breath at all; and
when they could not think of anything else to do, they laughed and laughed and laughed and
laughed.  Then they sat down on the grass to rest; and the Wonderful Toymaker sat between them
and smiled at them both.

"Now, we will refresh ourselves by eating unwholesome sweets," he said, and he gave a long
low whistle.  Immediately, they were pelted from all sides by the most delicious, unwholesome
sweets that were ever made; but, although they were ever so unwholesome, and although the children
ate quantities and quantities of them, they were not in the least bit the worse for it; and
when they had eaten all they could, the Wonderful Toymaker filled their pockets for them, and
laughed again.

"Won't you stop here always?" he asked them.

The children shook their heads.

"I must go back to mother," said the Princess Petulant.  "She must be wondering where I am, now."

"And I have got to be Prime Minister, some day," said Martin, with a sigh. 

He became an orderly, a messenger. He carried parcels, he transported straw and hay. If the burden
was too heavy for the poor convalescent, the man took his own portion with a good grace, and
the two mutually aided each other on the errand.  Won't you really stay and play with me?"

However, when he saw that they were quite determined to go home, he made the best of it and
asked them whether they would like to go by sea, or by sky, or by land.  Martin wanted to go
by sky, but when the Princess said she would much prefer to go by land as she had come most
of the way by sky, the Prime Minister's son gave in at once and said that he had meant to choose
the land road all the time.  So the Toymaker fetched two beautiful rocking-horses and helped
the children to mount them, and said he should never forget their visit for the rest of his
life.  He could not have said more than that, for of course he has been living ever since.

So they rode out of the valley and up the hill-side, and they waved their hands to the Wonderful
Toymaker who stood looking disconsolately after them, and they wished they could have played
with him just a little longer.  They had very little time even to wish, however, for the rocking-horses
rushed over the ground at such a pace that they could see nothing they were passing; so, after
all, they would have been none the wiser if they had come by sky as Martin had wished.  Then
the townspeople came out of their houses and stared with amazement, as they saw their King's
daughter and their Prime Minister's son racing past them on wooden horses; but they had no
time, either, to make remarks on the matter before the children were out of sight again, for
the wooden horses never stopped until they brought their riders to the palace gates; and then
they disappeared and left Martin and the Princess Petulant knocking for admission.

Then there was a hullabaloo!  The Queen dried her tears and hugged them both, one after another;
and the King dismissed the council which had not helped him in the least; and the Prime Minister
was more convinced than ever that his son would never be Prime Minister; and the two children
span their tops before the whole court and told the story of their adventures.  And it was
at once written down, word for word, by the Royal Historian, and that is how it has got inside
this book.

The two children never visited the Wonderful Toymaker again; and Martin never became Prime
Minister.  One day he became King instead; and it was all because he married the Princess Petulant
the moment he was grown up.  They thoroughly enjoyed life for the rest of their days, and so
did everybody else in the kingdom, down to the Prime Minister and the Royal Historian; and
this was all because they never lost the wonderful tops which had been given them by the Wonderful
Toymaker.

The Professor of Practical Jokes

Years and years and years ago, in a country that has been long forgotten, there lived a king
called Grumbelo.  In spite of his extremely ugly name, which was certainly no fault of his,
he was young, handsome, and talented; and this made it all the more remarkable that he had
never thought of seeking a wife.  He ruled his country so well that not a single poor or ill-treated
person was to be found in the whole of it; and yet, it was the dullest country that has ever
existed. The reason for this was plain; the King was all very well in his way, and to be well-governed
no doubt has its advantages, but the people were unreasonable and they wanted more than this.
They wanted court balls, and court banquets, and royal processions through the streets, with
bands playing and flags flying; they wanted more play, and more holidays, and more fun; and
all these things, as every one knows well, are only to be had when there is a Queen at court.
The King, however, was so well satisfied with himself that it never occurred to him how dreadfully
dull his kingdom was growing; and he was exceedingly surprised when a number of the courtiers,
headed by the Royal Comptroller of Whole Holidays and the learned Professor of Practical Jokes,--who
had been positively out of work ever since his serious young Majesty came to the throne,--waited
upon him one morning, with the humble request that he should begin to think about finding a Queen.

"What more can you want?" asked the young King in astonishment. "Surely a King, or at least
a King such as I am, is enough for my subjects!  I am quite satisfied with myself: is it possible
that the country is not equally satisfied?"

"The country is more than satisfied with your excellent Majesty," explained the Comptroller
of Whole Holidays.  "The country has never been so admirably governed before.  It feels, however,
that certain other things are almost as important, your Majesty, as wise laws and honest toil;
such as--such as whole holidays, for instance."

"And practical jokes," murmured the learned Professor at his side.

His Majesty was silent.  It seemed incredible that the country should want anything more than
the excellent government of King Grumbelo; but he was fond of his people at heart,--in spite
of the dulness to which he had brought them, and so he consented in the end to give them a Queen.

"Go and find me the most beautiful, the most silent, and the most foolish Princess in the world,"
he said to them.  "She must be the most beautiful because I shall have to look at her, and
the most silent because I am able to talk for both of us, and the most foolish because I can
be wise for her as well as for myself. We are doing it. Among the thoroughly cultured and rightly
trained of our women, virtue is as sacred as life, and among our
men of similar advantages, honor and integrity are prized as highly
as among any people on the globe.

  There were a hundred and fifty altogether; but although they
were without doubt both beautiful and foolish, they never stopped talking for an instant, and
not one of them would King Grumbelo have for his Queen. So the Royal Comptroller of Whole Holidays
and the learned Professor of Practical Jokes put their heads together once more, and in a few
days' time they came again to the King.

"We have heard at last of the Princess who would suit you," they said to him.  "She is so beautiful
that the trees stop gossiping and the flowers stop breathing when she passes by; and she is
so silent that if it were not for the wonderful expression in her eyes it would be impossible
to hold any conversation with her at all."

"Ah," said King Grumbelo, nodding his royal head approvingly; "and is she very foolish as well?"

"That she must be, your Majesty," said the Comptroller of Whole Holidays, looking nervously
towards the Professor of Practical Jokes, "because, your Majesty,--well, because--"

"Because she has refused to have anything to do with your Majesty," boldly interrupted the
Professor.

"What?" cried the King, astounded.  "She does not wish to be my Queen?"

"Not exactly that, your Majesty," stammered the Comptroller of Whole Holidays; "but she declares
she could never marry any one who--who--"

"Who has so ridiculous a name as your Majesty!" said the Professor of Practical Jokes without
a moment's hesitation.

King Grumbelo stepped down from his throne and merely smiled.

"That is of no consequence," he observed.  "Evidently she knows nothing about me except my
unfortunate name, and that I certainly did not give myself.  Tell me at once where this wonderful
Princess is to be found."

"That is exactly what we do not know, your Majesty," they confessed, reluctantly.  "As soon
as the Princess heard that your Majesty wished to make her a Queen she fled from the country,
and we have not been able to discover where she has hidden herself!"

"No matter," said King Grumbelo, actually omitting to scold them for their stupidity; "it is
never difficult to find the most beautiful Princess in the world!  Bring me my horse at once;
you can make ready for the royal wedding as soon as you please."

