Gallatin has been blamed for "taking life awry and throwing away the advantages of education,
social position, and natural intelligence," by his removal to the frontier, and his career
compared with that of Hamilton and Dallas, who, like him, foreign born, rose to eminence in
politics, and became secretaries of the treasury of the United States. But both of these were
of English-speaking races. No foreigner of any other race ever obtained such distinction in
American politics as Mr. Gallatin, and he only because he was the choice of a constituency,
to every member of which he was personally known. It is questionable whether in any other condition
of society he could have secured advancement by election--the true source of political power
in all democracies. John Marshall, afterwards Chief Justice, recognized Gallatin's talent soon
after his arrival in Richmond, offered him a place in his office without a fee, and assured
him of future distinction in the profession of the law; but Patrick Henry was the more sagacious
counselor; he advised Gallatin to go to the West, and predicted his success as a statesman.
Modest as the beginning seemed in the country he had chosen, it was nevertheless a start in
the right direction, as the future showed. It was in no sense a mistake.

Neither did the affairs of the wilderness wholly debar intercourse with the civilized world.
Visiting Richmond every winter, he gradually extended the circle of his acquaintance, and increased
his personal influence; he also occasionally passed a few weeks at Philadelphia. Two visits
to Maine are recorded in his diary, but whether they were of pleasure merely does not appear.
One was in 1788, in midwinter, by stage and sleigh. On this excursion he descended the Androscoggin
and crossed Merrymeeting Bay on the ice, returning by the same route in a snowstorm, which
concealed the banks on either side of the river, so that he governed his course by the direction
of the wind. With the intellect of a prime minister he had the constitution of a pioneer. On
one of these occasions he intended to visit his old friends and hosts, the Lesderniers, but
the difficulty of finding a conveyance, and the rumor that the old gentleman was away from
home, interfered with his purpose. He remembered their kindness, and later attempted to obtain
pensions for them from the United States government.

But the time now arrived when the current of his domestic life was permanently diverted, and
set in other channels. In May, 1789, he married Sophie Allègre, the daughter of William Allègre
of a French Protestant family living at Richmond. The father was dead, and the mother took
lodgers, of whom Gallatin was one. For more than a year he had addressed her and secured her
affections. Her mother now refused her consent, and no choice was left to the young lovers
but to marry without it. Little is known of this short but touching episode in Mr. Gallatin's
life. The young lady was warmly attached to him, and the letter written to her mother asking
forgiveness for her marriage is charmingly expressed and full of feeling. They passed a few
happy months at Friendship Hill, when suddenly she died. From this time Mr. Gallatin lost all
heart in the western venture, and his most earnest wish was to turn his back forever upon Fayette
County. In his suffering he would have returned to Geneva to Mademoiselle Pictet, could he
have sold his Virginia lands. But this had become impossible at any price, and he had no other
pecuniary resource but the generosity of his family.

Meanwhile the revolution had broken out in France. The rights of man had been proclaimed on
the Champ de Mars. All Europe was uneasy and alarmed, and nowhere offered a propitious field
for peaceful labor. But Gallatin did not long need other distraction than he was to find at home.

CHAPTER II

PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE

Political revolutions are the opportunity of youth. In England, Pitt and Fox; in America, Hamilton
and Gouverneur Morris; in Europe, Napoleon and Pozzo di Borgo, before they reached their thirtieth
year, helped to shape the political destiny of nations. The early maturity of Gallatin was
no less remarkable. In his voluminous correspondence there is no trace of youth. At nineteen
his habits of thought were already formed, and his moral and intellectual tendencies were clearly
marked in his character, and understood by himself. His tastes also were already developed.
His life, thereafter, was in every sense a growth. The germs of every excellence, which came
to full fruition in his subsequent career, may be traced in the preferences of his academic
days. From youth to age he was consistent with himself. His mind was of that rare and original
order which, reasoning out its own conclusions, seldom has cause to change.

His political opinions were early formed. A letter written by him in October, 1783, before
he had completed his twenty-third year, shows the maturity of his intellect, and his analytic
habit of thought. An extract gives the nature of the reasons which finally determined him to
make his home in America:--

     "This is what by degrees greatly influenced my judgment. After my
     arrival in this country I was early convinced, upon a comparison of
     American governments with that of Geneva, that the latter is
     founded on false principles; that the judicial power, in civil as
     well as criminal cases, the executive power wholly, and two thirds
     of the legislative power being lodged in two bodies which are
     almost self-made, and the members of which are chosen for life,--it
     is hardly possible but that this formidable aristocracy should,
     sooner or later, destroy the equilibrium which it was supposed
     could be maintained at Geneva."

The period from the peace of 1783 to the adoption of the federal Constitution in 1787 was one
of political excitement. The utter failure of the old Confederation to serve the purposes of
national defense and safety for which it was framed had been painfully felt during the war.
Independence had been achieved under it rather than by it, the patriotic action of some of
the States supplying the deficiencies of others less able or less willing. By the radical inefficiency
of the Confederation the war had been protracted, its success repeatedly imperiled, and, at
its close, the results gained by it were constantly menaced. The more perfect union which was
the outcome of the deliberations of the federal convention was therefore joyfully accepted
by the people at large. Indeed, it was popular pressure, and not the arguments of its advocates,
that finally overcame the formidable opposition in and out of the convention to the Constitution.
No written record remains of Mr. Gallatin's course during the sessions of the federal convention.
He was not a member of the body, nor is his name connected with any public act having any bearing
upon its deliberations. Of the direction of his influence, however, there can be no doubt.
He had an abiding distrust of strong government,--a dread of the ambitions of men. Precisely
what form he would have substituted for the legislative and executive system adopted nowhere
appears in his writings, but certainly neither president nor senate would have been included.
They bore too close a resemblance to king and lords to win his approval, no matter how restricted
their powers. He would evidently have leaned to a single house, with a temporary executive
directly appointed by itself; or, if elected by the people, then for a short term of office,
without renewal; and he would have reduced its legislative powers to the narrowest possible
limit. The best government he held to be that which governs least; and many of the ablest of
that incomparable body of men who welded this Union held these views. But the yearning of the
people was in the other direction. They felt the need of government. They wanted the protection
of a strong arm. It must not be forgotten that the thirteen colonies which declared their independence
in 1776 were all seaboard communities, each with its port. They were all trading communities.
The East, with its fisheries and timber; the Middle States, with their agricultural products
and peltries; the South, with its tobacco; each saw, in that freedom from the restrictions
of the English navigation laws which the treaty of peace secured, the promise of a boundless
commerce. To protect commerce there must be a national power somewhere. Since the peace the
government had gained neither the affection of its own citizens nor the respect of foreign powers.

The federal Constitution was adopted September 17, 1787. The first State to summon a convention
of ratification was Pennsylvania. No one of the thirteen original States was more directly
interested than herself. The centre of population lay somewhere in her limits, and there was
reasonable ground for hope that Philadelphia would become once more the seat of government.
The delegates met at Philadelphia on November 2. An opposition declared itself at the beginning
of the proceedings. Regardless of the popular impatience, the majority allowed full scope to
adverse argument, and it was not until December 12 that the final vote was taken and the Constitution
ratified, without recommendations, by a majority of two to one. In this body Fayette County
was represented by Nicholas Breading and John Smilie. The latter gentleman, of Scotch-Irish
birth, an adroit debater, led the opposition. In the course of his criticisms he enunciated
the doctrines which were soon to become a party cry; the danger of the Constitution "in inviting
rather than guarding against the approaches of tyranny;" "its tendency to a consolidation,
not a confederation, of the States." Mr. Gallatin does not appear to have sought to be a delegate
to this body, but his hand may be traced through the speeches of Smilie in the precision with
which the principles of the opposition were formulated and declared; and his subsequent course
plainly indicates that his influence was exerted in the interest of the dissatisfied minority.
The ratification was received by the people with intense satisfaction, but the delay in debate
lost the State the honor of precedence in the honorable vote of acquiescence,--the Delaware
convention having taken the lead by a unanimous vote. For the moment the Pennsylvania Anti-Federalists
clung to the hope that the Constitution might yet fail to receive the assent of the required
number of States, but as one after another fell into line, this hope vanished.

One bold expedient remained. The ratification of some of the States was coupled with the recommendation
of certain amendments. Massachusetts led the way in this, Virginia followed, and New York,
which, in the language of the day, became the eleventh pillar of the federal edifice, on July
26, 1788, accompanied her ratification with a circular letter to the governors of all the States,
recommending that a general convention be called.[1]

The argument taken in this letter was the only one which had any chance of commending itself
to popular favor. It was in these words: "that the apprehension and discontents which the articles
occasion cannot be removed or allayed unless an act to provide for the calling of a new convention
be among the first that shall be passed by the next Congress." This document, made public at
once, encouraged the Pennsylvania Anti-Federalists to a last effort to bring about a new convention,
to undo or radically alter the work of the old. A conference held at Harrisburg, on September
3, 1788, was participated in by thirty-three gentlemen, from various sections of the State,
who assembled in response to the call of a circular letter which originated in the county of
Cumberland in the month of August. The city of Philadelphia and thirteen counties were represented;
six of the dissenting members of the late convention were present, among whom was Smilie. He
and Gallatin represented the county of Fayette.

Smilie, Gallatin's earliest political friend, was born in 1742, and was therefore about twenty
years his senior. He came to the United States in youth, and had grown up in the section he
now represented. His popularity is shown by his service in the state legislature, and during
twelve years in Congress as representative or as senator. In any estimate of Mr. Gallatin,
this early influence must be taken into account. The friendship thus formed continued until
Smilie's death in 1816. From the adviser he became the ardent supporter of Mr. Gallatin.

Blair McClanachan, of Philadelphia County, was elected chairman of the conference. The result
of this deliberation was a report in the form of a series of resolutions, of which two drafts,
both in Mr. Gallatin's handwriting, are among his papers now in the keeping of the New York
Historical Society. The original resolutions were broad in scope, and suggested a plan of action
of a dual nature; the one of which failing, resort could be had to the other without compromising
the movement by delay. In a word, it proposed an opposition by a party organization. We were unable
to leave our seats on the stern-deck; for everything around us seemed to have assumed the character of
enchantment, and--had I been educated in the Grecian mythology--I should scarcely have been surprised
to find an assemblage of Dryads, Naiads and Oreads sporting on the plain beside us.

After having viewed Mohawk, eight miles from Little Falls; Herkimer, a town of about 5,000 inhabitants;
Ilion, with a population of nearly the same number, and Frankfort, four miles from Utica,
we reached the latter city as

"The sunset gorgeous dyes, Paled slowly from the skies,"

having achieved forty-two miles that day.

Utica contains approximately 47,000 residents. At the time of the revolution it was a frontier
trading-post and the site of Fort Schuyler, built to guard the settlements
against the French and Indians.

We made arrangements to remain in this city over night.

A long walk through Utica made us acquainted with a regular and handsomely built city, which
rises from the south bank of the Mohawk River to an elevation of 150 feet. Among the stately
buildings are six large hotels, the handsome city hall, the postoffice and the bank edifice.
There is also a State Lunatic Asylum. Utica, being in the center of a great dairy region, has become
the most important cheese market in the United States.

Genesee Street is the principal thoroughfare lined with large blocks of commercial houses.

The city has not yet attained its centennial; but during its history of less than a century
it has experienced a wonderful growth, especially during the last fifty years.

At 7 o'clock the next morning we resumed our voyage, sailing on the so-called sixty mile level; having
thus the delightful prospect not to be detained by going through
numerous locks.

We were also in limine of the far-famed lake region,
and soon traversed one of the finest portions of New York State.

Passing
the hamlets of York Mills, Whitesboro and Oriskany, the "Marguerite"
advanced near to the city of Rome towards 10 o'clock A.M. In its vicinity
the famous battle of Oriskany was fought; and Fort Stanwix, which
was besieged by the British in 1777, occupies a site now in the center
of the city of Rome. The latter is laid out with wide streets well
shaded with maples and elms. In the resident portion, a very high
artistic taste has been displayed in the erection of dwelling houses.
Although this thriving city of almost 16,000 inhabitants has not so
many points of interest as its namesake, the ancient metropolis of
the glorious Roman empire, whose wealth of antiquities is perfectly
marvelous and whose relics of classical and papal times are alike
almost innumerable; still it possesses one interesting feature that
ought not to be left unmentioned: It was here that cheese was first
made in factories. Seventeen received
the two thirds vote of the House. After conference with the Senate, in which Mr. Madison appeared
as manager for the House, these, reduced in number to twelve by elimination and compression,
were adopted by the requisite two thirds vote, and transmitted to the legislatures of the States
for approval. Ratified by a sufficient number of States, they became a part of the Constitution.
They were general, and declaratory of personal rights, and in no instance restrictive of the
power of the general government.

In 1789, the Assembly of Pennsylvania calling a convention to revise the Constitution of the
State, Mr. Gallatin was sent as a delegate from Fayette County. To the purposes of this convention
he was opposed, as a dangerous precedent. He had endeavored to organize an opposition to it
in the western counties, by correspondence with his political friends. His objections were
the dangers of alterations in government, and the absurdity of the idea that the Constitution
ever contemplated a change by the will of a mere majority. Such a doctrine, once admitted,
would enable not only the legislature, but a majority of the more popular house, were two established,
to make another appeal to the people on the first occasion, and, instead of establishing on
solid foundations a new government, would open the door to perpetual change, and destroy that
stability which is essential to the welfare of a nation; since no constitution acquires the
permanent affection of the people, save in proportion to its duration and age. Finally, such
changes would sooner or later conclude in an appeal to arms,--the true meaning of the popular
and dangerous words, "an appeal to the people." The opposition was begun too late, however,
to admit of combined effort, and was not persisted in; and Mr. Gallatin himself, with practical
good sense, consented to serve as a delegate. Throughout his political course the pride of
mastery never controlled his actions. When debarred from leadership he did not sulk in his
tent, but threw his weight in the direction of his principles. The convention met at Philadelphia
on November 24, 1789, and closed its labors on September 2, 1790. This was Gallatin's apprenticeship
in the public service. Among his papers are a number of memoranda, some of them indicating
much elaboration of speeches made, or intended to be made, in this body. One is an argument
in favor of enlarging the representation in the House; another is against a plan of choosing
senators by electors; another concerns the liberty of the press. There is, further, a memorandum
of his motion in regard to the right of suffrage, by virtue of which "every freeman who has
attained the age of twenty-one years, and been a resident and inhabitant during one year next
before the day of election, every naturalized freeholder, every naturalized citizen who had
been assessed for state or county taxes for two years before election day, or who had resided
ten years successively in the State, should be entitled to the suffrage, paupers and vagabonds
only being excluded." Certainly, in his conservative limitations upon suffrage, he did not
consult his own interest as a large landholder inviting settlement, nor pander to the natural
desires of his constituency.

In an account of this convention, written at a later period, Mr. Gallatin said that it was
the first public body to which he was elected, and that he took but a subordinate share in
the debates; that it was one of the ablest bodies of which he was ever a member, and with which
he was acquainted, and, excepting Madison and Marshall, that it embraced as much talent and
knowledge as any Congress from 1795 to 1812, beyond which his personal knowledge did not extend.
Among its members were Thomas McKean, signer of the Declaration of Independence and president
of the Continental Congress, Thomas Mifflin and Timothy Pickering, of the Revolutionary army,
and Smilie and Findley, Gallatin's political friends. General Mifflin was its president.

But mental distraction brought Mr. Gallatin no peace of heart at this period, and when the
excitement of the winter was over he fell into a state of almost morbid melancholy. To his
friend Badollet he wrote from Philadelphia, early in March, that life in Fayette County had
no more charms for him, and that he would gladly leave America. But his lands were unsalable
at any price, and he saw no means of support at Geneva. Some one has said, with a profound
knowledge of human nature, that no man is sure of happiness who has not the capacity for continuous
labor of a disagreeable kind. The occasional glimpses into Mr. Gallatin's inner nature, which
his correspondence affords, show that up to this period he was not supposed by his friends
or by himself to have this capacity. In the letter which his guardian wrote to him after his
flight from home, he was reproached with his "natural indolence." His good friend, Mademoiselle
Pictet, accused him of being hard to please, and disposed to ennui; and again, as late as 1787,
repeats to him, in a tone of sorrow, the reports brought to her of his "continuance in his
old habit of indolence," his indifference to society, his neglect of his dress, and general
indifference to everything but study and reading, tastes which, she added, he might as well
have cultivated at Geneva as in the new world; and he himself, in the letter to Badollet just
mentioned, considers that his habits and his laziness would prove insuperable bars to his success
in any profession in Europe. In estimation of this self-condemnation, it must be borne in mind
that the Genevans were intellectual Spartans. Gallatin must be measured by that high standard.
But if the charge of indolence could have ever justly lain against Gallatin,--a charge which
his intellectual vigor at twenty-seven seems to challenge,--it certainly could never have been
sustained after he fairly entered on his political and public career. In October, 1790, he
was elected by a two thirds majority to represent Fayette County in the legislature of the
State of Pennsylvania; James Findley was his colleague, John Smilie being advanced to the state
Senate. Mr. Gallatin was reëlected to the Assembly in 1791 and 1792, without opposition.

Among his papers there is a memorandum of his legislative service during these three years,
and a manuscript volume of extracts from the Journals of the House, from January 14, 1791,
to December 17, 1794. They form part of the extensive mass of documents and letters which were
collected and partially arranged by himself, with a view to posthumous publication. Here is
an extract from the memorandum:--

     "I acquired an extraordinary influence in that body [the
     Pennsylvania House of Representatives]; the more remarkable as I
     was always in a party minority. I was indebted for it to my great
     industry and to the facility with which I could understand and
     carry on the current business. The laboring oar was left almost
     exclusively to me. In the session of 1791-1792, I was put on
     thirty-five committees, prepared all their reports, and drew all
     their bills. Absorbed by those details, my attention was turned
     exclusively to administrative laws, and not to legislation properly
     so called.... I failed, though the bill I had introduced passed the
     House, in my efforts to lay the foundation for a better system of
     education. Primary education was almost universal in Pennsylvania,
     but very bad, and the bulk of schoolmasters incompetent, miserably
     paid, and held in no consideration. It appeared to me that in order
     to create a sufficient number of competent teachers, and to raise
     the standard of general education, intermediate academical
     education was an indispensable preliminary step, and the object of
     the bill was to establish in each county an academy, allowing to
     each out of the treasury a sum equal to that raised by taxation in
     the county for its support. But there was at that time in
     Pennsylvania a Quaker and a German opposition to every plan of
     general education.

     "The spirit of internal improvements had not yet been awakened.
     Still, the first turnpike-road in the United States was that from
     Philadelphia to Lancaster, which met with considerable opposition.
     This, as well as every temporary improvement in our communications
     (roads and rivers) and preliminary surveys, met, of course, with my
     warm support. But it was in the fiscal department that I was
     particularly employed, and the circumstances of the times favored
     the restoration of the finances of the State.

     "The report of the Committee of Ways and Means of the session
     1790-91 was entirely prepared by me, known to be so, and laid the
     foundation of my reputation. I was quite astonished at the general
     encomiums bestowed upon it, and was not at all aware that I had
     done so well. It was perspicuous and comprehensive; but I am
     confident that its true merit, and that which gained me the general
     confidence, was its being founded in strict justice, without the
     slightest regard to party feelings or popular prejudices. The
     principles assumed, and which were carried into effect, were the
     immediate reimbursement and extinction of the state paper-money,
     the immediate payment in specie of all the current expenses, or
     warrants on the treasury (the postponement and uncertainty of which
     had given rise to shameful and corrupt speculations), and provision
     for discharging without defalcation every debt and engagement
     previously recognized by the State. In conformity with this, the
     State paid to its creditors the difference between the nominal
     amount of the state debt assumed by the United States and the rate
     at which it was funded by the act of Congress.

     "The proceeds of the public lands, together with the arrears, were
     the fund which not only discharged all the public debts, but left a
     large surplus. The apprehension that this would be squandered by
     the legislature was the principal inducement for chartering the
     Bank of Pennsylvania, with a capital of two millions of dollars, of
     which the State subscribed one half. This, and similar subsequent
     investments, enabled Pennsylvania to defray, out of the dividends,
     all the expenses of government without any direct tax during the
     forty ensuing years, and till the adoption of the system of
     internal improvement, which required new resources.

     "It was my constant assiduity to business, and the assistance
     derived from it by many members, which enabled the Republican party
     in the legislature, then a minority on a joint ballot, to elect me,
     and no other but me of that party, senator of the United States."

Among the reports enumerated by Mr. Gallatin, as those of which he was the author, is one made
by a committee on March 22, 1793, that they ... are of opinion slavery is inconsistent with
every principle of humanity, justice, and right, and repugnant to the spirit and express letter
of the Constitution of the Commonwealth. Added to this was a resolution for its abolition in
the Commonwealth.

The seat of government was changed from New York to Philadelphia in 1790, and the first Congress
assembled there in the early days of December for its final session. Philadelphia was in glee
over the transfer of the departments. The convention which framed the new state Constitution
met here in the fall, and the legislature was also holding its sessions. The atmosphere was
political. The national and local representatives met each other at all times and in all places,
and the public affairs were the chief topic in and out of doors. In this busy whirl Gallatin
made many friends, but Philadelphia was no more to his taste as a residence than Boston. He
was disgusted with the ostentatious display of wealth, the result not of industry but of speculation,
and not in the hands of the most deserving members of the community. Later he became more reconciled
to the tone of Pennsylvania society, comparing it with that of New York; he was especially
pleased with its democratic spirit, and the absence of family influence. "In Pennsylvania,"
he says, "not only we have neither Livingstons, nor Rensselaers, but from the suburbs of Philadelphia
to the banks of the Ohio I do not know a single family that has any extensive influence. An
equal distribution of property has rendered every individual independent, and there is amongst
us true and real equality. In a word, as I am lazy, I like a country where living is cheap;
and as I am poor, I like a country where no person is very rich."

Hamilton's excise bill was a bone of contention in the national and state legislatures throughout
the winter. Direct taxation upon anything was unpopular, that on distilled spirits the most
distasteful to Pennsylvania, where whiskey stills were numerous in the Alleghanies. To the
bill introduced into Congress a reply was immediately made January 14, 1791, by the Pennsylvania
Assembly in a series of resolutions which are supposed to have been drafted by Mr. Gallatin,
and to have been the first legislative paper from his pen. The existence of the vast salt springs
of Onondaga was known to the Indians at an early date, and the secret
was by them imparted to the Jesuits in 1654.

The State took possession of the springs in 1794; and laws were passed for the conduct of the
manufacture. It was characterized by the first Continental Congress of 1774 as "the horror
of all free States." Notwithstanding their warmth, these resolutions passed the Assembly by
a vote of 40 to 16. The course of this excitement must be followed; as it swept Mr. Gallatin
in its mad current, and but for his self-control, courage, and adroitness would have wrecked
him on the breakers at the outset of his political voyage. The excise law passed Congress on
March 3, 1791. On June 22 the state legislature, by a vote of 36 to 11, requested their senators
and representatives in Congress to oppose every part of the bill which "shall militate against
the rights and liberties of the people."

