But, of course, the very core of the feud which threatens to disrupt modern civilization was
the discovery that, in any final adjustment, the POLITICAL did not suffice. What availed it
for the Taborer and the capitalist to be equal at the polls, for the vote of one to count as
much as the vote of the other, if the two men were actually worlds apart in their social and
industrial lives? Equality must seem to the laborer a cruel deception and a sham unless it
results in equality in the distribution of wealth and of opportunity. How this is to be attained
I have never seen satisfactorily stated; but the impossibility of realizing their dreams, or
the blank folly of doting on them, has never prevented men from striving to obtain them. From
this has resulted the frantic pursuit, during a century and a quarter, of all sorts of projects
from Babuvism to Bolshevism, which, if they could not install Utopia overnight, were at least
calculated to destroy Civilization as it is. Only the delicate, pointed fingers of his nervous
hands caressed constantly his unshaven chin, fingered his clothing, or--gripped the edge of the
wagon seat as he leaned forward in his place. Texas-- grim, cool, alert, his lean figure instinct
now with action and his dark eyes alight--swung his long whip and handled his reins with a master's
skill, calling upon every atom of his team's strength, while reading those tracks in the sand as
one would scan a printed page.

It was all written there--that story of mother love; where she staggered
with fatigue; where she was forced to rest; where the baby walked
a little way; and once or twice where the little one stumbled and
fell as the sand proved too heavy for the little feet.

And all the while the desert, dragging with dead weight at the wheels, seemed to fight against
them. It was as though the dreadful land knew that only time was needed to complete its work. Then
the hot sun dropped beyond the purple wall of mountain and the mystery of the long twilight
began.

"Dry River Crossing is just ahead," said Tex, and soon the outfit pitched down the steep bank of a
deep wash that had been made in some forgotten age by an overflow
of the great river.

Occasionally, after the infrequent rains of winter, some water was to be found here in a hole
under the high bank a short way from the trail.

With a crash of brakes the team stopped at the bottom. The men, springing from the wagon and leaving
the panting mules to stand with drooping heads, started to search the wash. But in a moment Texas
shouted and the others quickly joined him. Near the dry water hole
lay the body of a woman. By her side was a small canteen.

The engineer
bent to examine the still form for some sign of life.
According to the current opinion progress consisted in doubling wealth in the shortest time
possible; this meant the employment of larger and larger masses of labor; therefore laborers
should be satisfied, nay, should be grateful to the capitalists who provided them with the
means of a livelihood; and those capitalists assumed that what they regarded as necessary to
progress, defined by them, should be accepted as necessary to the prosperity of the Nation.

Such an alignment of the two elements, which composed the Nation, indicated how far the so-called
Civilization, which modern industrialism has created, was from achieving that social harmony,
which is the ideal and must be the base of every wholesome and enduring State. The condition
of the working classes in this country was undoubtedly better than that in Europe. And the
discontent and occasional violence here were fomented by foreign agitators who tried to make
our workers believe that they were as much oppressed as their foreign brothers. Wise observers
saw that a collision, it might be a catastrophe, was bound to come unless some means could
be found to bring concord to the antagonists. Here was surely an amazing paradox. The United
States, already possessed of fabulous wealth and daily amassing more, was heading straight
for a social and economic revolution, because a part of the inhabitants claimed to be the slaves
of industrialism and of poverty.

This slight outline, which every reader can complete for himself, will serve to show what sort
of a world, especially what sort of an American world, confronted Roosevelt when he took the
reins of government. His task was stupendous, the problems he had to solve were baffling. Other
public men of the time saw its portents, but he alone seems to have felt that it was his duty
to strain every nerve to avert the impending disaster. And he alone, as it seems to me, understood
the best means to take.

Honesty, Justice, Reason, were not to him mere words to decorate sonorous messages or to catch
and placate the hearers of his passionate speeches; they were the most real of all realities,
moral agents to be used to clear away the deadlock into which Civilization was settling.

CHAPTER XI. ROOSEVELT'S FOREIGN POLICY

In taking the oath of office at Buffalo, Roosevelt promised to continue President McKinley's
policies. And this he set about doing loyally. He retained McKinley's Cabinet,* who were working
out the adjustments already agreed upon. McKinley was probably the best-natured President who
ever occupied the White House. He instinctively shrank from hurting anybody's feelings. Persons
who went to see him in dudgeon, to complain against some act which displeased them, found him
"a bower of roses," too sweet and soft to be treated harshly. He could say "no" to applicants
for office so gently that they felt no resentment. For twenty years he had advocated a protective
tariff so mellifluously, and he believed so sincerely in its efficacy, that he could at any
time hypnotize himself by repeating his own phrases. If he had ever studied the economic subject,
it was long ago, and having adopted the tenets which an Ohio Republican could hardly escape
from adopting, he never revised them or even questioned their validity. His protectionism,
like cheese, only grew stronger with age. As a politician, he was so hospitable that in the
campaign of 1896, which was fought to maintain the gold standard and the financial honesty
of the United States, he showed very plainly that he had no prejudice against free silver,
and it was only at the last moment that the Republican managers could persuade him to take
a firm stand for gold.

* In April, 1901, J. W. Griggs had retired as Attorney-General and was succeeded by P. C. Knox;
in January, 1902, C. E. Smith was replaced by H. W. Payne as Postmaster-General.

The chief business which McKinley left behind him, the work which Roosevelt took up and carried
on, concerned Imperialism. The Spanish War forced this subject to the front by leaving us in
possession of the Philippines and by bequeathing to us the responsibility for Cuba and Porto
Rico. We paid Spain for the Philippines, and in spite of constitutional doubts as to how a
Republic like the United States could buy or hold subject peoples, we proceeded to conquer
those islands and to set up an American administration in them. We also treated Porto Rico
as a colony, to enjoy the blessing of our rule. And while we allowed Cuba to set up a Republic
of her own, we made it very clear that our benevolent protection was behind her.

All this constituted Imperialism, against which many of our soberest citizens protested. They
alleged that as a doctrine it contradicted the fundamental principles on which our nation was
built. Since the Declaration of Independence, America had stood before the world as the champion
and example of Liberty, and by our Civil War she had purged her self of Slavery. Imperialism
made her the mistress of peoples who had never been consulted. Such moral inconsistency ought
not to be tolerated. In addition to it was the political danger that lay in holding possessions
on the other side of the Pacific. To keep them we must be prepared to defend them, and defense
would involve maintaining a naval and military armament and of stimulating a warlike spirit,
repugnant to our traditions. In short, Imperialism made the United States a World Power, and
laid her open to its perils and entanglements.

But while a minority of the men and women of sober judgment and conscience opposed Imperialism,
the large majority accepted it, and among these was Theodore Roosevelt. He believed that the
recent war had involved us in a responsibility which we could not evade if we would. Having
destroyed Spanish sovereignty in the Philippines, we must see to it that the people of those
islands were protected. We could not leave them to govern themselves because they had no experience
in government; nor could we dodge our obligation by selling them to any other Power. Far from
hesitating because of legal or moral doubts, much less of questioning our ability to perform
this new task, Roosevelt embraced Imperialism, with all its possible issues, boldly not to
say exultantly. To him Imperialism meant national strength, the acknowledgment by the American
people that the United States are a World Power and that they would not shrink from taking
up any burden which that distinction involved.

When President Cleveland, at the end of 1895, sent his swingeing message in regard to the Venezuelan
Boundary quarrel, Roosevelt was one of the first to foresee the remote consequences. And by
the time he himself became President, less than six years later, several events--our taking
of the Hawaiian Islands, the Spanish War, the island possessions which it saddled upon us--confirmed
his conviction that the United States could no longer live isolated from the great interests
and policies of the world, but must take their place among the ruling Powers. Having reached
national maturity we must accept Expansion as the logical and normal ideal for our matured
nation. Cleveland had laid down that the Monroe Doctrine was inviolable; Roosevelt insisted
that we must not only bow to it in theory, but be prepared to defend it if necessary by force
of arms.

Very naturally, therefore, Roosevelt encouraged the passing of legislation needed to complete
the settlement of our relations with our new possessions. He paid especial attention to the
men he sent to administer the Philippines, and later he was able to secure the services of
W. Cameron Forbes as Governor-General. Mr. Forbes proved to be a Viceroy after the best British
model and he looked after the interest of his wards so honestly and competently that conditions
in the Philippines improved rapidly, and the American public in general felt no qualms over
possessing them. But the Anti-Imperialists, to whom a moral issue does not cease to be moral
simply because it has a material sugar-coating, kept up their protest.

There were, however, matters of internal policy; along with them Roosevelt inherited several
foreign complications which he at once grappled with. In the Secretary of State, John Hay,
he had a remarkable helper. Henry Adams told me that Hay was the first "man of the world" who
had ever been Secretary of State. While this may be disputed, nobody can fail to see some truth
in Adams's assertion. Hay had not only the manners of a gentleman, but also the special carriage
of a diplomat. He was polite, affable, and usually accessible, without ever losing his innate
dignity. An indefinable reserve warded off those who would either presume or indulge in undue
familiarity His quick wits kept him always on his guard. His main defect was his unwillingness
to regard the Senate as having a right to pass judgment on his treaties. And instead of being
compliant and compromising, he injured his cause with the Senators by letting them see too
plainly that he regarded them as interlopers, and by peppering them with witty but not agreeable
sarcasm. In dealing with foreign diplomats, on the other hand, he was at his best. They found
him polished, straightforward, and urbane. He not only produced on them the impression of honesty,
but he was honest. In all his diplomatic correspondence, whether he was writing confidentially
to American representatives or was addressing official notes to foreign governments, I do not
recall a single hint of double-dealing. Hay was the velvet glove, Roosevelt the hand of steel.

For many years Canada and the United States had enjoyed grievances towards each other, grievances
over fisheries, over lumber, and other things, no one of which was worth going to war for.
The discovery of gold in the Klondike, and the rush thither of thousands of fortune-seekers,
revived the old question of the Alaskan Boundary; for it mattered a great deal whether some
of the gold-fields were Alaskan--that is, American-or Canadian. Accordingly, a joint High Commission
was appointed towards the end of McKinley's first administration to consider the claims and
complaints of the two countries. The Canadians, however, instead of settling each point on
its own merits, persisted in bringing in a list of twelve grievances which varied greatly in
importance, and this method favored trading one claim against another. The result was that
the Commission, failing to agree, disbanded. Nevertheless, the irritation continued, and Roosevelt,
having become President, and being a person who was constitutionally opposed to shilly-shally,
suggested to the State Department that a new Commission be appointed under conditions which
would make a decision certain. He even went farther, he took precautions to assure a verdict
in favor of the United States. He appointed three Commissioners--Senators Lodge, Root, and
Turner; the Canadians appointed two, Sir A. L. Jette and A. B. Aylesworth; the English representative
was Alverstone, the Lord Chief Justice.

The President gave to Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, of the Supreme Court, who was going abroad
for the summer, a letter which he was "indiscreetly" to show Mr. Chamberlain, Mr. Balfour,
and two or three other prominent Englishmen. But the objection raised by certain Canadian authorities
to Lodge, Root, and Turner, and especially to Lodge and Root, was that they had committed themselves
on the general proposition. No man in public life in any position of prominence could have
possibly avoided committing himself on the proposition, any more than Mr. Chamberlain could
avoid committing himself on the question of the ownership of the Orkneys if some Scandinavian
country suddenly claimed them. If this claim embodied other points as to which there was legitimate
doubt, I believe Mr. Chamberlain would act fairly and squarely in deciding the matter; but
if he appointed a commission to settle up all these questions, I certainly should not expect
him to appoint three men, if he could find them, who believed that as to the Orkneys the question
was an open one. If I paid attention to mere abstract rights, that is the position I ought
to take anyhow. I have not taken it because I wish to exhaust every effort to have the affair
settled peacefully and with due regard to England's honor.'*

* W. R. Thayer: John Hay, II, 209, 210.

In due time the Commission gave a decision in favor of the American contention. Lord Alverstone,
who voted with the Americans, was suspected of having been chosen by the British Government
because they knew his opinion, but I do not believe that this was true. A man of his honor,
sitting in such a tribunal, would not have voted according to instructions from anybody.

Roosevelt's brusque way of bringing the Alaska Boundary Question to a quick decision, may be
criticised as not being judicial. He took the short cut, just as he did years before in securing
a witness against the New York saloon-keepers who destroyed the lives of thousands of boys
and girls by making them drunkards. Strictly, of course, if the boundary dispute was to be
submitted to a commission, he ought to have allowed the other party to appoint its own commissioners
without any suggestion from him. But as the case had dragged on interminably, and he believed,
and the world believed, and the Canadians themselves knew, that they intended to filibuster
and postpone as long as possible, he took the common-sense way to a settlement. If he had resolved,
as he had, to draw the boundary line "on his own hook," in case there was further pettifogging
he committed no impropriety in warning the British statesmen of his purpose. In judging these
Rooseveltian short cuts, the reader must decide whether they were justified by the good which
they achieved. 

The child-- still in the engineer's arms--ate hungrily, and when the meal was over he took her
to the wagon, while the others, with a lantern, returned to the still form by the dry water hole.
At the banker's suggestion, a thorough examination of the woman's clothing was made for some
clue to her identity, but no mark was found. With careful hands they reverently wrapped the
body in a blanket and laid it away in its rude, sandy bed.

When the grave was filled and protected as best it could be, a short consultation was held. Mr. Worth
wished to return to the half buried outfit to make another effort to learn the identity of the
Desert's victim, but Texas refused. "'Tain't that I ain't willin' to do what's right," he
said, "but you see how that sand acted. Why, Mr. Worth, you couldn't move that there drift in
a year, an' you know it. I jest gave the mules the last water they'll get an' we're goin' to
have all we can do to make it through as it is. If we wait to go back there ain't one chance
in a hundred that we-all 'll ever see Rubio City again. It ain't sense to risk killin' the kid when
we've got a chance to save her--jest on a slim chance o' findin' out who she is."

Returning to the outfit they very quietly--so as not to awaken the sleeping child--hitched the team
to the wagon and took their places. As the mules started the baby stirred uneasily in the Seer's
arms and murmured sleepily: "Mamma." But the low, soothing tones of the big man calmed her and she
slept.

Hour after hour of the long night dragged by. They had left the sand hills behind three miles before
they reached Dry River and now the wide, level reaches of the thinly covered plain, forbidding and ghostly
under the stars, seemed to stretch away on every side into infinite space. Involuntarily all
the members of the little party, except Texas Joe, strained their eyes looking into the blank,
silent distance for lights, and, as they looked, they turned their heads constantly to listen
for some sound of human life. But in all that vast expanse there was no light save the light
of the stars; in all that silent waste there was no sound save the occasional call of the
coyote, the plaintive, quivering note of the ground-owls, the muffled fall of the mules' feet
in the soft earth, and the dull chuck, creak, and rumble of the wagon with the clink of trace
chains and the squeak of straining harness leather. And always it was as though that dreadful
land clung to them with heavy hands, matching its strength against the strength of these who
braved its silent threat, seeking to hold them as it held so many others. The men spoke rarely
and then in low tones. The baby in the Seer's arms slept. Only Texas, and perhaps his team,
knew how they kept the dimly marked trail that led to life. Perhaps Texas himself did not know.

At
daybreak they halted for a brief rest and for breakfast.

The child ate with the others, but still clung to the engineer, and
while asking often for "mamma," seemed to trust her big protector
fully.

From the shelter of his arms she even smiled at the efforts of Texas, Pat and the boy to amuse and
keep her attention from her loss. From Jefferson Worth she still shrank in fear and the others
wondered at the pain in that gray face as all his efforts to win a smile or a kind look from
the baby were steadily repulsed.

It was Texas who, when they halted, poured the last of the water from
the barrel into the canteen and carefully measured out to each a small
portion. It was Texas now who gave the word to start again on their
journey. And when the desert man placed the canteen with their meager
supply of water in the corner of the wagon-box under his own feet
the others understood and made no comment. Understand me. When the treaty is adopted, as I suppose it will be, I shall
put the best face possible on it, and shall back the Administration as heartily as ever, but
oh, how I wish you and the President would drop the treaty and push through a bill to build
AND FORTIFY our own canal.

* Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, who also opposed the first treaty.

'My objections are twofold. First, as to naval policy. If the proposed canal had been in existence
in '98, the Oregon could have come more quickly through to the Atlantic; but this fact would
have been far outweighed by the fact that Cervera's fleet would have had open to it the chance
of itself going through the canal, and thence sailing to attack Dewey or to menace our stripped
Pacific Coast. If that canal is open to the warships of an enemy, it is a menace to us in time
of war; it is an added burden, an additional strategic point to be guarded by our fleet. If
fortified by us, it becomes one of the most potent sources of our possible sea strength. Unless
so fortified it strengthens against us every nation whose fleet is larger than our own. One
prime reason for fortifying our great seaports, is to unfetter our fleet, to release it for
offensive purposes; and the proposed canal would fetter it again, for our fleet would have
to watch it, and therefore do the work which a fort should do; and what it could do much better.

'Secondly, as to the Monroe Doctrine. If we invite foreign powers to a joint ownership, a joint
guarantee, of what so vitally concerns us but a little way from our borders, how can we possibly
object to similar joint action, say in Southern Brazil or Argentina, where our interests are
so much less evident? If Germany has the same right that we have in the canal across Central
America, why not in the partition of any part of Southern America? To my mind, we should consistently
refuse to all European powers the right to control in any shape, any territory in the Western
Hemisphere which they do not already hold.

'As for existing treaties--I do not admit the "dead hand" of the treaty making power in the
past. A treaty can always be honorably abrogated--though it must never be abrogated in dishonest
fashion.'*

* W. R. Thayer: John Hay, II, 339-41.

Fortunately, Lord Salisbury, the British Prime Minister, remained benevolently disposed towards
the Isthmian Canal, and in the following year he consented to take up the subject again. A
new treaty embodying the American amendments and the British objections was drafted, and passed
the Senate a few months after Roosevelt became President. Its vital provisions were, that it
abrogated the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty and gave to the United States full ownership and control
of the proposed canal.

This was the second illustration of Roosevelt's masterfulness in cutting through a diplomatic
knot. Arrangements for constructing the Canal itself forced on him a third display of his dynamic
quality which resulted in the most hotly discussed act of his career.

The French Canal Company was glad to sell to the American Government its concessions on the
Isthmus, and as much of the Canal as it had dug, for $40,000,000. It had originally bought
its concession from the Government of Colombia, which owned the State of Panama: At first the
Colombian rulers seemed glad, and they sent an accredited agent, Dr. Herran, to Washington,
who framed with Secretary Hay a treaty satisfactory to both, and believed, by Mr. Hay, to represent
the sincere intentions of the Colombian Government at Bogota. The Colombian politicians, however,
who were banditti of the Tammany stripe, but as much cruder as Bogota was than New York City,
suddenly discovered that the transaction might be much more profitable for themselves than
they had at first suspected. Eagerly they prepared to move. Against their shelter the sand had drifted
nearly to the top of the wheels, and the wagon-box itself was more than half filled. The hair,
eye-brows, beard and clothing of the men were thickly coated with powdery dust, while every sign of
the trail was gone and the wheels sank heavily into the soft sand.

Three times Texas halted the laboring team and, climbing to the summit of a drift, determined
his course by marks unknown to those who waited below. Again they stopped for the plainsman
to take an observation, and this time the four in the wagon, watching the figure of the driver
against the sky, saw him turn abruptly and come down to them with
long plunging strides. Instinctively they knew that something unusual
had come under his eye. As it
was now September, 1903, it did not require the wits of a political bandit to see that, by
staving off an agreement with the United States for a few months, Colombia could get possession
of property and privileges which the French were selling to the Americans for $40,000,000.
So the Colombian Parliament adjourned in October, 1903, without even taking up the Hay-Herran
Treaty.

Meanwhile the managers of the French Company became greatly alarmed at the prospect of losing
the sum which the United States had agreed to pay for its rights and diggings, and it took
steps to avert this total loss. The most natural means which occurred to it, the means which
it adopted, was to incite a revolution in the State of Panama. To understand the affair truly,
the reader must remember that Panama had long been the chief source of wealth to the Republic
of Colombia. The mountain gentry who conducted the Colombian Government at Bogota treated Panama
like a conquered. province, to be squeezed to the utmost for the benefit of the politicians.
There was neither community of interest nor racial sympathy between the Panamanians and the
Colombians, and, as it required a journey of fifteen days to go from Panama to the Capital,
geography, also, added its sundering influence. Quite naturally the Panamanians, in the course
of less than half a century, had made more than fifty attempts to revolt from Colombia and
establish their own independence. The most illiterate of them could understand that, if they
were independent, the money which they received and passed on to Bogota., for the bandits there
to spend, would remain in their own hands. An appeal to their love of liberty, being coupled
with so obvious an appeal to their pockets, was irresistible.

