"

But one of the most remarkable tributes to a quality with which Englishmen are seldom credited,
and one of the frankest confessions of a complete absence of this quality in our German rivals,
is contained in the following passage:--

"A further bad habit, harmful to our economic development, is narrow-mindedness. This, too,
is very prevalent in Germany--and elsewhere as well. And this is not surprising. Even among
the generation which is active to-day, the older members grew up at a time when possibilities
of development were restricted and environment was narrow. With commendable foresight many
of these older men have freed themselves from this petty spirit, and are second to none in
enterprise and energy. Germany can be as proud of its 'captains of industry' as America itself.
But many commercial circles in Germany are still unable to free themselves from these shackles.
The relations between buyer and seller are still often disturbed by petty quibbling. In those
industries where cartels and syndicates have not yet been formed, too great a rôle is played
by dubious practices of many kinds, by infringements of payment stipulations, by unjustifiable
deductions, etc., while, on the other hand, the cartels are often too ruthless in their action.
In this field we have very much to learn from the English business man. Long commercial tradition
and international business experience have taught him long ago that broad-mindedness is the
best business principle. Look at the English form of contract, the methods of insurance companies,
the settlement of business disputes! You will find no narrow-mindedness there. Tolerance, another
quality which the German lacks, has been of great practical advantage to the Englishman. Until
recently the City has never resented the settlement of foreigners, who were soon able to win
positions of importance there. Can one imagine that in Berlin an Italian or a South American,
with very little knowledge of the German language, would be not only entrusted with the management
of leading banks and companies, but would be allowed in German clubs to lay down--in their
faulty German--the law as to the way in which Germany should be developed? Impossible! Yet
this could be seen again and again in England, and the country gained greatly by it. If the
English have now developed a hatred of the foreigner, it only means that the end of England's
supremacy is all the nearer."

According to our German critic the great fabric that has been built up on these characteristics
and qualities is threatened with ruin by the war; and the heritage which we are supposed to
be losing is to fall, by some process which is not made very clear, largely into the hands
of Berlin. In order that we may not be accused of taking the laudatory plums out of this German
pudding and leaving out all criticisms and accusations, let us quote in full the passage in
which he dances in anticipation on London's corpse:--

"Let us sum up. England's reputation for honest business dealing and for trustworthy administration
has suffered. Her insular inviolability has been put in question. The ravages of war have undermined
the achievements of many generations. Her free gold market has broken down. The flow of capital
towards London will fall off, for those who cannot borrow there will no longer send deposits.
The surplus shown in her balance-sheet will contract. Foreign trade will also decrease. Hand
in hand with this fall, free trade, that mighty agent in the development of England's supremacy,
will, in all probability, give place to protection. Stock Exchange business will grow less.
Rates of interest will be permanently higher."

How much truth is there in all this? Has our reputation for honest dealing and for trustworthy
administration suffered? Surely not in the eyes of any reasonable and unprejudiced observer.
In the course of the greatest war in history, fought by Germany with weapons which have involved
the violation of the most sacred laws of humanity and civilisation, England has acted with
a respect for the interests of neutrals which has been severely criticised by impatient observers
at home. As for our "insular inviolability" having been put in question, it certainly has not,
so far, suffered any serious damage. Our Fleet has defended us from invasion with complete
success, and the damage done by marine and aerial raiders to our property on shore is negligible.
Our free gold market is said to have broken down. The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Germany, when the war began, immediately relieved the Reichsbank from any obligation of meeting
its notes in gold, and frankly went on to a paper basis. England has already shipped well over
200 millions in gold to America to finance her purchases there and those of her Allies.

It may be true that capital will not flow to London if London is not in a position to lend,
but we see no reason why London should not be able to resume her position as an international
money lender, not perhaps immediately on the declaration of peace, but as soon as the aftermath
of war has been cleared away and the first few months of difficulty and danger have been passed.
The prophecy that foreign trade will decrease may also be true for a time owing to the destruction
of merchant shipping that the war is causing. This possibility, however, may be remedied between
now and the end of the war if the great programmes of merchant shipbuilding which have been
undertaken by the British and American Governments are duly carried out. In any case, even
if foreign trade decreases, there is no reason whatever to expect that England's will decrease
faster than that of other nations.

In all these problems we have to look for the relative answer and to consider not whether England
has suffered by the war, for it is most obvious that she has, but whether she will have been
found to have suffered more than any competitor who may threaten her after-war position. I look
at him and reply: "Monsieur Velu, listen; we are well behaved here, and such language cannot
be allowed. You must respect the young people in my house." A little disconcerted, he tames down
and is quite deferential to Madame de Cheverney.--"You have pen and ink on your table," he says, "bring
them here." "What for," I ask, "to take my inventory?" "No, but I must make a procès-verbal.
You help me; it will be better for you, as you can fix it to suit
you"

This was not badly done, to conceal his want of knowledge.--We go in to dinner. My servants
waited on the table; I had not yielded to the system of a general table for all of us, which would
not have pleased my servants any more than myself. It may be true, but there is no reason why
they should be relatively higher in London than elsewhere; and, if they are high, it will be
because there will be a great demand for capital, which will mean a great trade expansion;
both in the provision of capital and in meeting the demands of trade expansion England will
be doing what she has done with marked success in the past and can, if she works in the right
way now and after the war, do again with equal and still greater success.

There is, however, a danger that threatens our financial position after the war, on the subject
of which our German critic is discreetly silent, because that danger threatens the position
of Germany very much more emphatically. It consists in the way in which our Government is at
present meeting the needs of war finance, not by compelling economy on the civilian population
through taxation and borrowing direct from investors, but by manufacturing currency for the
purposes of the war by means of the printing press and the banking machinery. The effect of
this policy is seen in the enormous mass of Treasury notes with which the country has been
flooded. Their total is now nearly 180 millions or perhaps 100 millions more than the gold
which they were originally designed to replace.

It is also to be seen in the great increase in banking deposits which has been a feature of
our financial history since the war began. Some people regard this feature as a phenomenal
proof of the growth of our wealth during the war. I am afraid there is little foundation for
this pleasant assumption, for these new deposits have been called into being by the banks subscribing
to Government securities, whether War Loan, Treasury Bills, Exchequer Bonds or Ways and Means
advances or lending their customers the wherewithal to do so. By this process the balance-sheets
of the banks are swollen on both sides, by the Government securities and advances to customers
among the assets, against which the banks create new deposits, so giving the community as a
whole the right to draw more cheques.

Every time the bank makes an advance it gives the borrower a credit in its books, that is to
say, the right to draw cheques to that amount; the borrower draws on the credit and hands it
to any one to whom he owes money; but as long as the advance is outstanding there will be a
deposit out against it in the books of some bank or another.

It is an easy way for the Government to finance the war by getting the banks to manufacture
money for it. Nobody feels any poorer for the process, in fact, those who have new money in
their pockets or in their bank balance feel richer, but the result of thus multiplying currency
without any increase in the supply of goods and services to be bought inevitably helps the
rise in prices which makes the war costly, puts the burden of it on to the wrong shoulders,
and likewise cheapens the value of the English pound as measured in other currencies. This
is why the evils involved by this process become so relevant to the question now at issue.

If the Government is allowed to go on financing the war by increasing the currency with the
very reluctant help of the bankers, the difficulties of maintaining our gold standard and keeping
the exchanges in favour of London will be very greatly magnified when the war is over and our
gold reserves are no longer protected by the submarines and the high cost of shipping gold
that they produce. It therefore follows that all who have the true interests of the City at
heart should use all the influence they can to force the Government to adopt a sounder financial
policy before it is too late.

It is true that our war finance has hitherto been sounder than that of any other warring Power,
but it has fallen very short if we apply the rough test of the proportion of the cost of war
borne out of taxation and compare our performance with the results achieved by our ancestors
in the Napoleonic and Crimean wars.

If we have done better than France, Italy, Russia and Germany in this respect, it must also
be remembered that the financial prestige which these countries had to maintain was not nearly
so great and well established as ours, with the possible exception of France; and France, being
exposed to the ravages of a ruthless invader, was in a position which put special obstacles
in the way of the canons of sound finance.

If, then, there are certain dangers that threaten our financial position when the war is over,
we must remember, on the other hand, that the war has already done a great deal to maintain
our financial prestige and raise it to a height at which it never stood before.

When the war began we were expected to finance the Allies, to keep the seas clear and put a
small Expeditionary Force to support the left flank of the French Army, and to do these things
during a contest which was expected by the consensus of expert opinion to last not more than
a few months. All these things we accomplished, and we were the only Power at war which did
actually accomplish all that it was expected and asked to do. More than that, we also undertook
a great task which was not in our programme; we created a great army on a Continental scale,
and, at the same time, continued to carry out the other tasks which had been assigned to us.

All these things we did, and that we should have done them was evidence of economic strength
and adaptability which have astonished the world. To have financed the Allies and ourselves
as long as we did would have been comparatively easy if our population could have been left
at work to turn out the stuff and services, the provision of which are implied by financing;
but for us to have been able to do it and at the same time to improvise an army which is now
consistently and regularly beating the Germans is an achievement which will inevitably raise
the world's opinion of our economic strength, on which financial prestige is ultimately based.

But, as it has been said, in discussing this question we have to look at it all the time from
the relative point of view. How will our prestige be when the war is over, not as compared
with what it was before the war, but as compared with what any other rival in any other part
of the world can show? Here we have to acknowledge at once, freely and frankly, that, as compared
with New York, we shall have gone backward.

America will have been enormously enriched by the war, which we shall certainly have not. America
will have been opening up channels of international trade and international finance, and so
New York will have been gaining at the expense of London. It is certain that when the war is
over America's dependence upon London for credits against the shipments of goods to and from
her shores will have been very greatly lessened, if not altogether a thing of the past.

This change would have happened any way, war or no war, but it has been greatly quickened by
the war. Before the war America was already making arrangements, under her new banking system,
to promote the machinery for acceptance and discount, in order that goods sent to her from
foreign countries should be financed by bills drawn on American banks and houses in dollars
instead of on English banks and houses in sterling.

Apart from this development, which would have happened in any case, it remains to be seen how
far New York will be in a position to act as a rival of London as the world's financial centre.
The internal resources and potentialities of America are so enormous, and there is such a vast
amount of work to be done in developing them and bringing them to full fruition, that it does
not at all follow that America will yet be inclined to take the position in international trade
and finance which will one day surely be hers, when she has done all the work that is waiting
to be done in her own back premises.

America has a new banking and monetary system on trial which has met the difficult problems
of the war with great success. These problems, however, are not nearly as complicated and various
as those which are likely to arise in time of peace. When a nation is turning out an enormous
amount of goods for which the rest of the world is prepared to pay any price, her finance is
a comparatively simple business. Even now, when America has assumed the duty of financing a
large number of Allies impoverished by three years of war which have been enriching her, she
is still simplifying the problem by restricting her advances to the payment for goods bought
in America.

That New York will be greatly strengthened by the war, which has brought masses of American
securities back to the country of origin and has put into the hands of American bankers and
investors large blocks of European promises to pay, is as clear as noonday; but whether when
the war is over New York will care to be bothered much with problems of international finance
remains to be seen. In the first place, the claims of her own country upon her financial resources
will be insatiable and imperative, In the second place, the business of international finance
is carried out on very finely cut terms; and the Americans being accustomed to the fat rates
of profit which business at home has given them may not care to devote much attention to the
international market, in which the risks are big, the turnover is enormous and the profits
very finely cut. It has been remarked by a shrewd observer that the Americans will never do
business for a thirty-second.

In the third place, it must be remembered that the geographical position of London is more
favourable than that of New York as a world centre, as the world is at present constituted.
England, anchored off the coast of Europe, is clearly marked as the depôt for the entrepôt
trade of the Old and New Worlds. New York is clearly marked as the centre for the trade of
the Western hemisphere, and it is likely enough that New York and London, acting together as
the financial chiefs of the two hemispheres, may be gradually united into what is practically
one market by the growing ties of mutual interest.

With regard to the position of other possible rivals to London's position, it need only be
said that they have certainly been weakened much more rapidly than has London during the course
of the war. Paris, threatened by the near approach of an invading foe, has inevitably suffered
much more severely than London, and is likely to take longer in recovering the great position
as a provider of capital which was given to her by the thrift of the average French citizen.
Every one expects with confidence to see, when the war is over, a miraculous recovery in France
produced by the same spirit which worked miracles after the war of 1871, aided and abetted
by the subsequent improvement in man's control over the forces of nature, and also by the deep
and world-wide sympathy which all will feel for France as the champion of freedom who has suffered
most severely in its cause during the war. But it is impossible to expect, after what France
has suffered, that she will be, for some time, in a position seriously to challenge London
as a financial rival. All Englishmen will hope that the day when she will be in a position
to challenge us again will come quickly.

As to Berlin, the only other possible rival to London in Europe, very little need be said.
The German authority quoted above has already shown some of the difficulties with which Berlin
has to struggle. He acknowledges that though Germany had a gold standard "too much anxiety
used to be shown when the gold export point was reached," and that "it was also feared that
to export gold would incur the wrath of the Reichsbank."

With these disadvantages to struggle against, quoted from the mouth of a German observer, Germany
has also succeeded by her ruthless policy during the war in earning the deep hostility of the
greater part of mankind. Sentiment probably enters into business relations a good deal more
than most business men admit, and for any country to set out to gain the leadership in trade
and finance by outraging the feelings of most of its possible customers is an extraordinary
piece of stupidity.

It seems, then, that apart from the relative weakening of London as compared with New York,
there is very little need for us to fear any serious change in England's financial position
after the war as long as the Government's faulty finance is not allowed too seriously to endanger
the position of our gold standard. It is true that we shall not benefit, as much as we undoubtedly
have in the past, from the "help of Germans" in developing our finance. But indirectly the
Germans will still be helping us by the great stimulus that the war will have given us towards
efficiency and hard work.

What we have to do in order to secure London's position after the war is to restore as soon
as we can the system that had established it in the century before the war. We have to show
the world that, far from any intention to abandon Free Trade, we mean to take a long step forward
along the line of international activity which has been the source of our greatness in the
past. We want, as soon as possible, to get back that freedom from Government control which
has given us such elasticity and adaptability to our money market, our Stock Exchange and our
Insurance business. A certain amount of Government control will inevitably have to continue
for a time after the war, but the sooner we rid ourselves of it the sooner we shall restore
to the London money market those qualities which, after the reputation that it has for honesty,
soundness and straight dealing, were most helpful in building up its eminence.

Above all, we have to work hard both in finance and industry and commerce. Finance, which is
the machinery for handling claims for goods and services, can only be active and effective
if industry and commerce are active and effective behind it, turning out the goods and services
to meet the claims that finance creates. A great industrial and commercial output, with severe
restriction of unnecessary consumption so that a great margin may go into capital equipment,
will soon repair the ravages of war, bring down the price of credit and of capital and make
London once more the place in which these things are most cheaply and freely to be bought.

Finally, if we want to restore London as a place in which all the financial transactions of
the world were centred, we must remember that we cannot do so if we restrict the facilities
given to foreigners to come here and settle and do business. It is not possible to be an international
centre with an insular sentiment.

A legend current in the City says that the Imperial War Committee, or whatever was the august
body entrusted with the task of thinking out war problems beforehand, had done its work with
regard to the Army and Navy, transport and provision, and everything else that we should want
for the war, and were going on to the question of finance next week, when the war intervened.
Whatever may be the truth of this story, the events of the war confirm the opinion that if
it was not true it ought to have been. We are continually accused of not having been ready
for the war; but, in fact, we were quite ready to do everything that we had promised to do
with regard to military and naval operations. I tried to ignore everything, even the names of the
accused."--It is plain enough that, in the local official body, there are too many agents who
are weak, not zealous, without any push, unreliable, or even secretly hostile; these must be replaced
by others who are energetic and reliable, and the latter must be taken wherever they can be found.[3368]
This reservoir in each department or district is the Jacobin nursery of the principal town;
from this, they are sent into the bourgs and communes of the conscription.
 That British
force was duly there, and circumstances which were quite unforeseen made it necessary for us
to undertake a task which was no part of our original programme and create an Army on a Continental
scale, in addition to doing everything that we had promised beforehand to a much greater extent
than was in the bargain.

But in finance there was no evidence that any thought-out policy had been arrived at in order
to make the best possible use of the nation's economic resources for the war when it came.
The acute crisis in the City which occurred in August, 1914, was a minor matter which hardly
affected the subsequent history of our war finance except by giving dangerous evidence of the
ease by which financial problems can be apparently surmounted by the simple method of creating
banking credits. That crisis merely arose from the fact that we were so strong financially,
and had so great a hold upon the finance of other countries in the world, that when we decided,
owing to stress of war, to leave off lending to foreigners and to call in loans that we had
made by way of accepting and bill-discounting arrangements, the whole machinery of exchange
broke down because from all over the world the market in exchange went one way. Everybody wanted
to buy bills on London, and there were no bills to be had.

There was also the internal problem which arose because some of the public and some of the
banks took to the evil practice of hoarding gold just at the wrong moment, and consequently
there was no available supply of legal tender currency except in the shape of Bank of England
notes, the smallest denomination of which is £5. It is known that our bankers had long before
pointed out to the Treasury that if ever a banking crisis arose there would, or might be, this
demand for a paper currency of smaller denominations than £5; this suggestion got into a pigeon-hole
at the Treasury and was deep under the dust of Whitehall by the time experience proved how
big a gap in our financial armour had been made by its neglect. If the £1 notes, with which
we are now so familiar, had been ready when the war broke out, or, still better, if the Bank
of England had been empowered and instructed to have an issue of its own £1 notes ready, it
may at least be contended that the moratorium, which was so bad a financial beginning of the
war, might have been avoided.

But this opening crisis was a short-lived matter, and was promptly dealt with, thanks to the
energy and courage of Mr Lloyd George, who was then Chancellor of the Exchequer, and saw that
things had to be done quickly, and took the advice of the City as to what had to be done. The
measures then employed erred, if at all, on the side of doing too much, which was certainly
a mistake in the right direction if in any. What is much more evident is the fact that not
only had there been no attempt to provide against just such a jolt to our financial machine
as took place when the war began, but that, quite apart from the financial machinery of the
City, no reasoned and thought-out attention had been given to the great problems of governmental
finance which war on such a scale brought with it. There is, of course, the excuse that nobody
expected the war to be on this scale, or to last so long. The general view was that the struggle
would be over in a few months, and must certainly be so if for no other reason because the
economic strain would be so great that the nations of Europe could not stand it for a long
time. On the other hand, we must remember that Lord Kitchener, whom most men then regarded
as representing all that was most trustworthy in military opinion, made arrangements from the
beginning on the assumption that the war might last for three years. So, while some excuse
may be made for our lack of financial foresight, it does seem to have been the duty of those
whose business it is to manage our finances to have thought out a complete scheme to be adopted
in case of war if at any time we should be involved in one on a European scale. Instead of
which, not only would it appear that no such endeavour had been made by our Treasury experts
before the war, but that no such endeavour has ever been made by them since the war began.
All through the war's history many of the country's mistakes have been based on the encouraging
conviction that the war would be over in the next six months. This conviction is still cherished
to this day, and there can be no doubt that if those who cherish it hold on to it long enough
they will come right some day.

But if delusions of this kind may be fairly excused in the man in the street, they do not seem
to be any excuse for those who are responsible for our finance for their total lack of a thought-out
scheme at the beginning of the war, and their total failure to produce one as the war went
on. We have financed the war by haphazard methods, limping along the line of least resistance.
We are continuing to do so, and we may do so to the end, though there are now growing signs
of an impatience both among the property-owning classes and others of the system by which we
are financing the war by piling up debt and manufacturing banking credits. 

Then I'm not ashamed, any way, of that song of mine.

Sir W. Of yours?--Is it possible that it is yours?

Clara. It is indeed. These are the very lines he gave me this morning.
Christy. And I humbly thank you, madam or miss, for having got them
set to the musics.

Clara. I had nothing to do with that. We must
thank Mr. Hope for this agreeable surprise.

Christy. Why, then, I
thank you, Mr. Drum.

Mr. H. You owe me no thanks, sir. I will take
none from you.

Christy. No--for I didn't remember giving you the
copy.

Finance is an enormously important weapon in the hands of our rulers for gliding the economic
activities of the people. This is so even in peace time to a certain extent, though the revenue
then collected is so small an item in the total national income that it counts for much less
than in war, when the power that the Government can wield by its policy in taxation and borrowing
might have been all-powerful in keeping the nation on the right lines in the matter of spending
and keeping down the cost of the war, and in maintaining our financial staying power to a far
greater extent than has actually been done.

It is easy, as they say on the Stock Exchange, to job backwards, and it is also easy, and perhaps
rather unprofitable, to hazard opinions about what would have happened if things had been otherwise.
Nevertheless, when we look back on the spirit of the country as it was in those early days
of the war, when the violation of Belgium had sent a chivalrous thrill through the hearts of
all classes in the country, when we all recognised that we were faced with the greatest crisis
in our history, that our country and the future of civilisation were about to be tested by
the severest strain ever applied to them, that the life and fortune of the individual did not
count, but that the war and victory were the only interests that any one had a right to consider--when
one remembers all these things, and the use that a wise financial policy might have made of
them, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the history of the war in this country
and its social and political effects might have been something much finer, much cleaner and
more noble if only the weapons of finance had been more boldly and wisely used. It is not a
good thing to indulge in high-falutin' on this subject. It is absurd to suppose that the war
suddenly turned us all into plaster saints at the beginning, and that we might have continued
so to the end if the State had dealt with our money in a proper way. But without setting up
any such idealistic arguments as these, looking back on those early days of the war, one can
still remember the thrill of earnestness and of eagerness for self-sacrifice which has since
then given way lamentably to war profiteering, war strikes, and a general struggle among many
classes of the community to make as much as possible out of the war, merely because our financial
leaders have never really put the country's financial problem properly before the country.

