Soon after landing I met upon the street an old Seattle friend of my parents, who knew me instantly
and directed me to my father. This man's kind offer to look up my baggage was accepted, and
I trudged down through the town towards the Klondyke River, where my father and brother lived.
I had no difficulty in finding father, and after the first surprise and our luncheon were over
we proceeded to find my brother at his work. His astonishment was as great as my father's,
and I cannot truthfully state that either of them were overcome with joy at seeing me in Dawson.
At any other time or place they undoubtedly would have been delighted, but they were too well
acquainted with conditions to wish another member of their family there in what was probably
then the largest and roughest mining camp in the world. The situation that presented itself
was this. Instead of finding my relatives comfortably settled in a large and commodious log
cabin of their own on the banks of the Klondyke River, as they had written they were, I found
them in the act of moving all their belongings into a big covered scow or barge drawn close
to the river bank and securely fastened. Fair voyage through the realms of Space, the universe of
stars, the passionate throbs of Time, with thy precious human freight, O lovely Planet, cradling
our dead in thy green bosom, and uniting the living in one great nation; and may the brightest
sunshine fall upon thy flowers until thy young Immortals are all
landed in the Port of Heaven!

'COR UNUM, VIA UNA.'

GOD BLESS OUR NATIVE LAND!

From every clime, and name, and race, The thronging myriads came,
A mighty Empire's bounds to trace, A wilderness to tame!

Chorus--From
mountain peak to sear-girt shore, Let Freedom's noble band Uplift
the song thrills each heart's core: God bless our native land! Father and brother had, along with
many more as peaceable and law-abiding citizens, been ordered out of their log cabins, built
at a great out-lay of time, money and strength, so that their homes should be pulled down in
accordance with an order given by the Governor. This land, as the city had grown, had increased
in value and was coveted by those high in authority. No redress was made the settlers, no money
was paid them, nothing for them but insulting commands and black looks from the Canadian police
enforcing the order of the governor.

"Never again," said my father repeatedly, "will I build or own a home in the Klondyke. This
scow will shelter me until I make what money I want, and then good-bye to such a country and
its oppressive officials."

Other men cursed and swore, and mutterings of a serious nature were heard; but there was nothing
to be done, and the row of comfortable, completed log cabins was torn down, and we settled
ourselves elsewhere by degrees. A bunk with calico curtains hung around it was made for me,
and I was constituted cook of the camp. Then such a scouring of tins, kettles and pails as
I had! Here is an opportunity to do good to all men. And ‘as ye have therefore opportunity,
do good unto all men,’ then you can take these promises for your own and depend upon God to
supply all your needs. You can and need to be just as much given up to God, and just as dependent
upon him as the ministry is.

Who will help now, by means and prayers, to send the gospel to every
creature and every land?”

Good works do not cease with giving. There
are many opportunities for all to do good that God might be glorified. Crooked,
rough and dirty streets; rude, narrow board walks or none at all; dog-teams hauling all manner
of loads on small carts, and donkeys or "burros" bowing beneath great loads of supplies starting
out on the trail for the gold mines.

"Don't do that!" shouted a man to me one day, as I attempted to "snap-shot" his pack train
of twenty horses and mules as they passed us. Two of the animals had grown tired and attempted
to lie down, thus causing the flour sacks with which they were loaded to burst open and the
flour to fly in clouds around them. "Don't do that," he entreated, "for we are having too much
trouble!"

Some of the drivers were lashing the mules to make them rise, and this spread a panic through
most of the train, so that one horse, evidently new to the business and not of a serious turn
of mind, ran swiftly away, kicking up his heels in the dust behind him. There were also hams
and sides of bacon dangling in greasy yellow covers over the backs of the pack animals, along
with "grub" boxes and bags of canned goods of every description. Pick axes, shovels, gold pans
and Yukon stoves with bundles of stove pipe tied together with ropes, rolls of blankets, bedding,
rubber boots, canvas tents, ad infinitum.

There was one method used by "packers," as the drivers of these pack trains were called, which
worked well in some instances. If the animals of his train were all sober and given to honestly
doing their work, then the halter or rope around the neck of a mule could be tied to the tail
of the one preceding him, and so on again until they were all really hitched together tandem.
But woe unto the poor brute who was followed by a balky fellow or a shirk! The consequences
were, at times, under certain circumstances, almost too serious to be recounted in this story,
at least this can be said of the emphatic language used by the packers in such predicament.

One warm, bright day soon after my arrival in Dawson, and when order had been brought out of
chaos in the scow--our home--I went to call upon an old friend, formerly of Seattle. Carrie
N. was three or four years younger than myself, had been a nurse for a time after the death
of her husband, but grew tired of that work, and decided in the winter of 1897 and 1898 to
go into the Klondyke. XV. The Struggle for Compromise in 1850. XVI. The Era of Slave Hunting--1850-'60.
XVII. The Nebraska-Kansas Struggle. XVIII. Case of Dred Scott in the Supreme Court. XIX. Our
Foreign Policy--Monroe--Cuba. XX. John Brown and his Raid. XXI. The Presidential Canvass of
1860. XXII. Secession Inaugurated in South Carolina. XXIII. The Press and the People of the North
Deprecate Civil War. XXIV. Attempts at Conciliation in Congress. XXV. Peace Democracy at the
North and Peace Conference at Washington. XXVI. The Union versus the Confederacy. XXVII. The
Pause before the Shock. XXVIII.

Siege and Reduction of Fort Sumter. XXIX. The Nation Called to Arms--and Responds. XXX. Secession
Resumes its March. XXXI. The Opposing Forces in Conflict. XXXII. They had landed, she said, at Dyea from the "Alki" with their many
tons of provisions and supplies, all of which had to be dumped upon the beach where no dock
or wharf had ever been constructed. Here with dog-teams and sleds, a few horses and men "packers,"
their supplies were hauled up the mountain as far as "Sheep Camp," some ten miles up the mountain
side. It was early springtime and the snow lay deep upon the mountains and in the gorges, which,
in the vicinity of Chilkoot Pass at the summit of the mountain are frightfully high and precipitous.

The weather was not cold, and the moving of this large party of forty persons with their entire
outfit was progressing as favorably as could be expected. A camp had been made at Dyea as the
base of operations; another was made at Sheep Camp. At each place the women of the party did
the cooking in tents while men gathered wood, built fires, and brought water. Other men worked
steadily at the hauling, and most of their supplies had already been transported to the upper
camp; when there occurred a tragedy so frightful as to make itself a part of never-to-be-forgotten
Alaskan history.

It was on Sunday, and a snow storm was raging, but the weather was warm. Hundreds of people
thronged the trails both going up and coming down the mountain in their effort to quickly transport
their outfits over to the other side, and thus make the best possible time in reaching the
gold fields. Peter came and told them of Jesus, of his resurrection and his power to save. As
he spoke the Holy Ghost fell upon all them which heard his words. Then said Peter, Can any man
forbid water that these should not be baptized which have received the Holy Ghost as well
as we? A few venturesome ones kept to their purpose and started on ahead,
promising to meet the laggards at Lake Bennett with boats of their own making in which to journey
down the river and lakes to Dawson.

Their promises were never fulfilled.

While they, in company with hundreds of others as venturesome, trudged heavily up the narrow
trail, a roar as of an earthquake suddenly sounded their death-knell. Swiftly down the mountain
side above them tore the terrible avalanche, a monster formation of ice, snow and rock, the
latter loosened and ground off the face of old Chilkoot by the rushing force of the moving
snowslide urged on by a mighty wind. In an instant's time a hundred men and women were brushed,
like flies from a ceiling, off the face of the mountain into their death below, leaving a space
cleared of all to the bare earth where only a few seconds before had stood the patient toilers
on the trail.

Only one thing remained for the living to do, and that was to drop all else and rescue, if
possible, the dying and engulfed ones. This they did. When the wind had died away the snow
in the air cleared, and hundreds of men threw themselves into the rescue work. Many were injured
but lived. Some were buried in snow but found their way to light again. One man was entirely
covered except one arm which he used energetically to inform those above him of his whereabouts.
He was taken out unharmed, and lived to welcome the writer of this to Dawson, where he carted
and delivered her trunk faithfully.

But Carrie N. had remained at Sheep Camp and was safe. Then her experience in nursing stood
her in good stead; and while men brought the dead to camp, she, with others, for hours performed
the services which made the bodies ready for burial. It was a heart-rending undertaking and
required a cool head and steady hand, both of which Carrie N. possessed. Two men of her party
thus lost their lives, and it was not until days afterward that the last of the poor unfortunates
were found. Nearly one hundred lives were lost in this terrible disaster, but there were undoubtedly
those whose bodies were never found, and whose death still remains a mystery.

CHAPTER IV.

THE RUSH.

Since the discovery of gold by George Carmack on Bonanza Creek in September, 1896, the growth
of this country has been phenomenal, more especially so to the one who has visited and is familiar
with Dawson and the Klondyke mining section.

As to the entire yield of gold from the Klondyke Creeks, none can say except approximately;
for the ten per cent. royalty imposed by the Canadian government has always met a phase of
human nature which prompts to concealment and dishonesty, so that a truthful estimate cannot
be made.

The Canadian Dominion government is very oppressive. Mining laws are very arbitrary and strictly
enforced. A person wishing to prospect for gold must first procure a miner's license, paying
ten dollars for it. If anything is discovered, and he wishes to locate a claim, he visits the
recorder's office, states his business, and is told to call again. In the meantime, men are
sent to examine the locality and if anything of value is found, the man wishing to record the
claim is told that it is already located. The officials seize it. The man has no way of ascertaining
if the land was properly located, and so has no redress. If the claim is thought to be poor,
he can locate it by the payment of a fifteen dollar fee.

One half of all mining land is reserved for the crown, a quarter or more is gobbled by corrupt
officials, and a meagre share left for the daring miners who, by braving hardship and death,
develop the mines and open up the country.

"Any one going into the country has no right to cut wood for any purpose, or to kill any game
or catch any fish, without a license for which a fee of ten dollars must be paid. With such
a license it is unlawful to sell a stick of wood for any purpose, or a pound of fish or game."
The law is strictly enforced. To do anything, one must have a special permit, and for every
such permit he must pay roundly.

The story is told of a miner in a hospital who was about to die. He requested that the Governor
be sent for. Being asked what he wanted with the Governor, he replied: "I haven't any permit,
and if I should undertake to die without a permit, I should get myself arrested."

It is a well-known fact that many claims on Eldorado, Hunker and Bonanza Creeks have turned
out hundreds of thousands of dollars. One pan of gravel on Eldorado Creek yielded $2100. Frank
Dinsmore on Bonanza Creek took out ninety pounds of solid gold or $24,480 in a single day.
On Aleck McDonald's claim on Eldorado, one man shoveled in $20,000 in twelve hours. McDonald,
in two years, dug from the frozen ground $2,207,893. Charley Anderson, on Eldorado, panned
out $700 in three hours. T. S. Lippy is said to have paid the Canadian government $65,000 in
royalties for the year 1898 and Clarence Berry about the same.

On Skukum Gulch $30,000 were taken from two boxes of dirt. Frank Phiscator of Michigan, after
a few months' work, brought home $100,000 in gold, selling one-third of his claim interests
for $1,333,000, or at the rate of $5,000,000 for the whole.

When a man is compelled to pay one thousand dollars out of every ten thousand he digs from
the ground, he will boast little of large "clean-ups"; and for this reason it is hard to estimate
the real amount of gold extracted from the Klondyke mines. 

It is a clear statement of the dogmas held, the reasons for their adoption, and the hopes of
what is styled the Church of the Future.

Of the ability of many of its adherents there can be no doubt. The contest is upon the children
of Faith. Let them meet it with candor, fairness, prayer, love, profound biblical and scientific
erudition, and may God comfort us with His eternal truth!

DRAMATIS PERSONÆ. By ROBERT BROWNING. Boston: Ticknor & Field. New York: for sale by D. Appleton
& Co.

This book has been already reviewed by the English critics, who are
always appreciative of Browning's merits, and tender to his faults.

It is as wilful as its predecessors, as unintelligible, as fragmentary, its rhythm as distorted and
broken, its diction as peculiar, its sequences as disconnected. Yet we think it shows gleams
of higher poetic talent than anything he has yet published. It contains eighteen poems. 'A Death
in the Desert' is an imaginary portrayal of the death of St. John
in his old age in a cave, to which he had been taken by some faithful
adherents to save him from persecution.

It is a sketch of power and originality. St. John is supposed to speak:

'If I live yet, it is for good, more love Through me to men: be nought
but ashes here That keeps awhile my semblance, who was John-- Still
when they scatter, there is left on earth No one alive who knew (consider
this!) --Saw with his eyes and handled with his hands That which was
from the first the Word of Life.

How will it be when none more saith 'I saw?''

Very original and very disagreeable in its highly wrought and subtile Realism is 'Caliban upon
Setebos, or Natural Theology in the Island,' a study from Shakspeare's
'Tempest.' It is a curious exposition of the philosophy of such a
being.

At the close, when Caliban, who speaks in the third person, is beginning to think of Setebos,
'his dam's god,' as not so formidable after all, a great storm awakes, which upsets all his
reasoning, and makes him fall flat on his face with fright:

'What, what?

The story runs that a lady and gentleman of eminence, devout spiritualists, residing at Rome, confessed
to Mr. Browning that during Mr. Home's stay at their house they once
forbade his putting his hand under the table, and the spirits wouldn't
rap, and Home burst into tears, and confessed that on that occasion
only he had deceived them; that on one other occasion he had put phosphorus
on the tips of wires and stretched them from the roof of their house
to represent certain spiritual apparitions.

'And what did you say, how did you act, upon the discovery?' asked Mr. Browning. 'Oh,' replied the
lady, 'I rebuked him severely; told him plainly how shameful it was that one who had been
so supernaturally gifted should act so, and told him that he ought to repent.' 'And he still remained
with you, and--' 'Oh, yes, we are perfectly sure that everything was genuine afterward.' Upon
which the poet was so disgusted that he vented his indignation in 'Mr. Sludge.'

FIRESIDE TRAVELS. By JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL. 'Travelling makes a man sit still in his old age with
satisfaction, and travel over the world again in his chair and bed by discourse and thoughts.'--The Voyage
of Italy, by Richard Lassels, Gent. The additions (most of them about Italy) have been made up,
as the original matter was, from old letters and journals written
on the spot.

My wish was to describe not so much what I went to see, as what I saw that was most unlike
what one sees at home. If the reader find entertainment, he will find all I hoped to give him.'

And
a churl he surely were if he find it not; for a right pleasant book it is to read--genial and
full of the real Lowell humor, almost as characteristic as Jean Paul's, der einzige. 'Cambridge
Thirty Years Ago' will carry many of our most distinguished men back to the sunny days of youth,
while the boys of to-day will be delighted to know how it fared with them then and there. Contents:
Cambridge Thirty Years Ago; A Moosehead Journal; Leaves from My Journal
in Italy and Elsewhere; At Sea; In the Mediterranean; Italy; A Few
Bits of Roman Mosaic.

There is no use in praising a book of Lowell's; everybody knows, reads, and loves him.
 This
box was in a state of total collapse; rollers all gone, covering torn and bent, screws and
nails lost, sides split, bottom entirely dropped out, but it must go; so my big brother was
wheedled into putting it into some kind of shape again, and it came out stronger than before.

No lunches were needed. The cuisine of the Hannah was said to be as perfect as could be in
this far away corner of the globe, and we trusted to that.

On September sixteenth the Hannah sounded her whistle--all was hurry and bustle, and such a
sight! If hundreds had stood on the docks to welcome us as we entered the city, there were
thousands now. It was pleasant. We felt flattered, especially as the band struck up our own
national airs, giving us a medley of "Yankee Doodle," "America," "Tramp, Tramp, Tramp," and
"When Johnny Comes Marching Home." They felt constrained, however, to wind up with "Sweet Marie,"
and rag-time dances, one old fellow in slouch hat and with a few drinks too many, stepping
the jigs off in lively and comical fashion.

Our pride was perceptibly lessened afterward, when we learned that we had on board a dance
hall outfit, and the band belonged to the Monte Carlo saloon!

We were now in the midst of a group, cosmopolitan beyond our wildest dreams. Pushing their
way through the crowd to the gangplank came men, women and dogs, carrying grips, kodaks, tin
cash boxes, musical instruments, army sacks, fur robes, and rolls of blankets. Struggling under
the weight of canvas tents, poles, Yukon stoves and sleds, as well as every conceivable thing,
they climbed the stairway to the deck. Here, and in the main saloon, all was deposited for
the time being.

There was a woman with a fine grey cat, for which she had been offered fifty dollars, wrapped
in a warm shawl, much to pussy's disgust. A number of women had dogs and were weeping, probably
at leaving other canines behind. Several persons carried little grips so heavy that they tugged
along--evidently "Chechako," or paper money, was more scarce with them than dust and nuggets.

As freight, there was a piano, many iron-bound boxes containing gold bullion, securely sealed
and labeled, and tons of supplies for the consumption of the passengers, of whom there were
now five hundred.

Then the whistle again sounded--the gangplank was hauled in, handkerchiefs fluttered, the band
struck up "Home Sweet Home"--we were headed down the Yukon River and toward the Arctic Circle.

       *       *       *       *       *

We had now a journey of seventeen hundred miles before us. We were to traverse a country almost
unknown to man. We were two of a party of five hundred persons, the majority of whom, if not
actually desperadoes, were reckless and given over to the pursuit of gold regardless of the
manner of its getting. There were loose characters of the town by hundreds; there were gamblers
running a variety of games both day and night; there were dance house girls and musicians;
there were drunks and toughs, and one prize fighter. No firearms or knives were seen, though
many, no doubt, had them.

With the enormous amount of gold on board (for the steamer's safe was overflowing, and the
purser's room well packed with the precious stuff), with the numbers of hard characters we
carried, and the now increasing remoteness from centres of government, there were dangers,
we were forced to confess, but which we only admitted in whispers.

Three hours after leaving Dawson we were taking on wood at Forty Mile. This is the oldest camp
on the Yukon River, and the early home of Jack McQuestion. The river banks were lined with
canoes; many natives stood looking at us from the shore, and while stevedores handled the wood,
many passengers visited the town. It was not long before they came back with hands full of
turnips, just pulled from the ground, which, had they been the most luscious fruit, could not
have been eaten with more relish.

I then tried to buy one of a young man, but he had evidently been long away from such luxuries,
for he refused to sell; afterward, his gallantry getting the better of him, he politely offered
me one-half of the vegetable, which I took with thanks.

As my brother peeled the precious turnip, I asked him how long since he had eaten one. "Two
years," he promptly replied. Knowing that he was especially fond of such things, I ate a small
slice, and gave him the remainder. It is needless to say he enjoyed it.

To the right of the landing at Forty Mile, just across a small stream which runs into the Yukon,
is Fort Cudahy, containing the stores and warehouses of one of the large companies, as well
as a post-office.

But we were soon off again, steaming along between hills yellow with fading poplar leaves and
green streaked with pines. Many rocky spurs towered grandly heavenward, with tops, like silvered
heads, covered with newly fallen snow. The Yukon is here very crooked and narrow, and abrupt
banks hedged our steamer in on all sides.

Next morning early we arrived at Eagle City, Alaska. We were now in Uncle Sam's land, and breathed
more freely. We felt at home. We cheered and waved our handkerchiefs to the blue uniformed
soldiers on the river bank who had come to see us.

We went ashore and called upon lieutenant L., lately from his home in Connecticut and campaigning
in Cuba. Taking us into a log house near by, he pointed out forty thousand rounds of ammunition
and one hundred and fifteen Krag-Jorgensen rifles of the latest pattern.

Here were stationed one hundred and fifteen men, some of them at that time out moose hunting
and fishing. Captain Ray, an old white-haired gentleman, stood outside his cabin door. At Eagle
we saw the new government barracks just being finished, the logs and shingles having been sawed
at the government saw-mill near by, at the mouth of Mission Creek.

We were particularly struck with the very youthful appearance of our soldiers, and their wistful
faces as they watched our preparations for departure.

The lieutenant had said that life in Cuba, or in almost any old place was preferable to that
at Eagle, with the long winter staring them in the face, and we could see that the poor fellow
longed for home. We were quite touched, but tried to cheer him as best we could.

Circle City, on a big bend of the river from which it derives its name, was reached the following
evening. Here all hands crowded over the gangplank and into the stores. In less time than it
takes to write it, these places were filled with miners, each man pulling away at his strong,
old pipe, the companion of many weary months perhaps; while over the counters they handed their
gold dust in payment for the "best plug cut," chewing gum, candy, or whatever else they saw
that looked tempting. There are the sick and the discouraged to be visited and prayed with.

There are kind and sympathetic words that need to be spoken to lighten the burden of some weary
heart. All around us are opportunities for loving deeds and good works that can be done as
unto Jesus, which are precious treasures being laid up for us in the glory world.

Eating Of Meats.

Many are the arguments on this subject from the pulpit and the press,
from the wise and not wise; and many have been deceived and led to
believe that to eat or refuse to eat certain kinds of meat is a duty
they either owe to themselves or to God.

Many professed gospel preachers spend much time in discussing this
subject of meats, and would have their followers believe that the
eating of certain kinds of meat is an offense against God, and through
their selfishness and ignorance endeavor to prove their arguments
from the law of Moses, which was absolutely done away with when Christ
died on the cross as a sacrifice for the sins of the world.

I have no more to do with the law of Moses than I have with any law that has been repealed by the
last act of Congress. It is disannulled and taken away by the one that succeeds it.

The law was merely a temporary form of government until Christ should come, to whom the promise
was made. It served as a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, but when Christ came we were no
longer under a schoolmaster. Gal. 3:19, 24. “Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law.”
Gal. 3:13.

So then the law was neither grace nor truth as regards matters pertaining to you and me.

The New Testament Scriptures settle most questions beyond all doubts, and leave no room for
discussion. Paul speaks very lightly of this matter of eating meats, and his language shows
it to be of no importance whatever. He says, “Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats:
but God shall destroy both it and them.” 1 Cor 6:13. The apostle means to set forth the idea
that the kingdom of God has nothing to do with meat and drink, and
such trifling things as dieting ourselves is not taken into consideration.

 For three days we had no sunshine, and flurries of snow were
frequent. The mountain tops, as well as the banks and sand-bars of the river, were spread with
a thin covering of snow; enough at least to give a wintry aspect. This added to the leaden
sky above, made the warmth of big coal fires acceptable indoors, and fur coats comfortable
on the decks.

At Fort Yukon the low water prevented our landing. We were told, however, that the place contained
one hundred log houses, as well as an old Episcopal Mission, in which Mrs. Bumpus had lived
and taught the natives for twenty years. Many of the Eskimo girls are trained as children's
nurses and make very satisfactory ones.

Into the Yukon Flats empty the Porcupine River, Birch Creek and other streams. Fort Yukon was
established by the Hudson Bay Company many years ago, all supplies coming in and shipments
of furs going out by way of the McKensie River and the great Canadian Lakes.

Toward evening one day, while the stevedores were busy handling wood, we went ashore and visited
an Eskimo family in their hut. It was built on the high river bank among the trees, quite near
the steamer's landing. On the roof of the hut, there lay, stretched on sticks to dry, a large
brown bear skin. Near by we saw the head of a freshly killed moose, with the hoofs of the animal
still bloody.

As we stooped to enter the low door of the cabin, we felt the warmth from the fire in the little
Yukon stove which was placed in the corner of the room. Next to this was a rude table, on which
lay a quarter of moose meat, looking more or less tempting to travelers living on canned goods.

A bed stood in one corner, upon which two or three little children were playing, and upon a
pile of rags and skins on the floor sat an old Eskimo woman, wrinkled and brown. These were
her children and grandchildren, and she was spending her life on the floor of the cabin, watching
the little ones play around her, for she was paralyzed.

There were no chairs in the cabin, and but few rude utensils and playthings. A box or tin can,
which had contained provisions, was now and then utilized.

After a few moments with the Eskimos, we backed out into the open air again, for the atmosphere
of the hut was peculiar, and not altogether agreeable to our southern olfactories. It reminded
us of Mrs. Peary's description of native smells in Greenland.

The short path back to our steamer lay through a poplar grove, and under our feet was spread
a carpet of brown and yellow leaves, which, in the cool night air, smelled ripe and woodsy.

Next came Fort Hamlin, where we again saw some of Uncle Sam's boys, and where we trudged out
through the soft light snow and took some kodak views.

Rampart City was reached in the early evening. One long row of houses upon the south bank of
the Yukon, near the mouth of the Big Minook Creek constitutes the town. Here empty the Little
Minook, Alder, Hunter, and many other gold-bearing creeks, and a bustling town sprung up only
to be almost depopulated during the Nome excitement.

By this time several inches of snow had fallen, and the ground was freezing. We managed here
to climb the slippery steps of the log store building in the dusk and buy a pound of ordinary
candy, for which we paid one dollar.

Again we were in deep water. This time so very smooth that the hills, peaks, trees and islands
were all mirrored on its surface, and very beautiful.

The days were now quite short. About five in the afternoon the electric lights were turned
on through the steamer, fresh coal again piled on the fires, and we reminded ourselves how
comfortably we were traveling.

Then the dinner bell rang, and we sat down to dinner. Some attempt at decoration had been made,
for tall glasses stood in the centre of the tables filled with ripe grasses and pretty autumn
leaves, but, strange to relate, we were more interested in the contents of our soup plates
and what was to follow. The cold and bracing air during our short walks on deck had given us
all famous appetites, and we relished everything.

