Mr. Fishwick was himself sick with fatigue, but he knew what to do and did it. He passed his
arm through Sir George's, and signed to the smith to lead the way to the inn. The man did so,
the crowd made way for them, Mr. Dunborough and the servant followed; in less than a minute
the three gentlemen stood together in the sanded tap-room at the tavern. The landlord hurried
in and hung a lamp on a hook in the whitewashed wall; its glare fell strongly on their features,
and for the first time that night showed the three to one another.

Even in that poor place, the light had seldom fallen on persons in a more pitiable plight.
Of the three, Sir George alone stood erect, his glittering eyes and twitching nostrils belying
the deadly pallor of his face. He was splashed with mud from head to foot, his coat was plastered
where he had fallen, his cravat was torn and open at the throat. He still held his naked sword
in his hand; apparently he had forgotten that he held it. Mr. Dunborough was in scarce better
condition. White and shaken, his hand bound to his side, he had dropped at once into a chair,
and sat, his free hand plunged into his breeches pocket, his head sunk on his breast. Mr. Fishwick,
a pale image of himself, his knees trembling with exhaustion, leaned against the wall. The
adventures of the night had let none of the travellers escape.

The landlord and his wife could be heard in the kitchen drawing ale and clattering plates,
while the voices of the constable and his gossips, drawling their wonder and surmises, filled
the passage. Sir George was the first to speak.

'Bristol!' he said dully. 'Why Bristol?'

'Because the villains who have escaped us here,' the lawyer answered, 'we shall find there.
And they will know what has become of her.'

'But shall we find them?'

'Mr. Dunborough will find them.'

'Ha!' said Sir George, with a sombre glance. 'So he will.'

Mr. Dunborough spoke with sudden fury. 'I wish to Heaven,' he said, 'that I had never heard
the girl's name. How do I know where she is!'

'You will have to know,' Sir George muttered between his teeth.

'Fine talk!' Mr. Dunborough retorted, with a faint attempt at a sneer, 'when you know as well
as I do that I have no more idea where the girl is or what has become of her than that snuff-box.
And d--n me!' he continued sharply, his eyes on the box, which Sir George still held in his
hand, 'whose is the snuff-box, and how did she get it? That is what I want to know? And why
did she leave it in the carriage? If we had found it dropped in the road now, and that kerchief
round it, I could understand that! But in the carriage. Pho! I believe I am not the only one
in this!'

CHAPTER XXI

IN THE CARRIAGE

The man whose work had taken him that evening to the summit of the Druid's Mound, and whose
tale roused the Castle Inn ten minutes later, had seen aright. But he had not seen all. Had
he waited another minute, he would have marked a fresh actor appear at Manton Corner, would
have witnessed the dénouement of the scene, and had that to tell when he descended, which must
have allayed in a degree, not only the general alarm, but Sir George's private apprehensions.

It is when the mind is braced to meet a known emergency that it falls the easiest prey to the
unexpected. Julia was no coward. But as she loitered along the lane beyond Préshute churchyard
in the gentle hour before sunset, her whole being was set on the coming of the lover for whom
she waited. As she thought over the avowal she would make to him, and conned the words she
would speak to him, the girl's cheeks, though she believed herself alone, burned with happy
blushes; her breath came more quickly, her body swayed involuntarily in the direction whence
he, who had chosen and honoured her, would come! The soft glow which overspread the heights,
as the sun went down and left the vale to peace and rest, was not more real or more pure than
the happiness that thrilled her. Her heart overflowed in a tender ecstasy, as she thanked God,
and her lover. In the peace that lay around her, she who had flouted Sir George, not once or
twice, who had mocked and tormented him, in fancy kissed his feet.

In such a mood as this she had neither eyes nor ears for aught but the coming of her lover.
When she reached the corner, jealous that none but he should see the happy shining of her eyes--nor
he until he stood beside her--she turned to walk back; in a luxury of anticipation. Her lot
was wonderful to her. She sang in her heart that she was blessed among women.

And then, without the least warning, the grating of a stone even, or the sound of a footstep,
a violent grip encircled her waist from behind; something thick, rough, suffocating, fell on
her head and eyes, enveloped and blinded her. The shock of the surprise was so great that for
a moment breath and even the instinct of resistance failed her; and she had been forced several
steps, in what direction she had no idea, before sense and horror awoke together, and wresting
herself, by the supreme effort of an active girl, from the grasp that confined her, she freed
her mouth sufficiently to scream.

Twice and shrilly; then, before she could entirely rid her head of the folds that blinded her,
a remorseless grip closed on her neck, and another round her waist; and choking and terrified,
vainly struggling and fighting, she felt herself pushed along. Coarse voices, imprecating vengeance
on her if she screamed, again, sounded in her ears: and then for a moment her course was stayed.
She fancied that she heard a shout, the rush and scramble of feet in the road, new curses and
imprecations. The grasp on her waist relaxed, and seizing her opportunity she strove with the
strength of despair to wrest herself from the hands that still held the covering over her head.
Instead, she felt herself lifted up, something struck her sharply on the knee; the next moment
she fell violently and all huddled up on--it might have been the ground, for all she knew;
it really was the seat of a carriage.

The shock was no slight one, but she struggled to her feet, and heard, as she tore the covering
from her head, a report as of a pistol shot. The next moment she lost her footing, and fell
back. She alighted on the place from which she had raised herself, and was not hurt. But the
jolt, which had jerked her from her feet, and the subsequent motion, disclosed the truth. Before
she had entirely released her head from the folds of the cloak, she knew that she was in a
carriage, whirled along behind swift horses; and that the peril was real, and not of the moment,
momentary!

This was horror enough. But it was not all. One wild look round, and her eyes began to penetrate
the gloom of the closely shut carriage--and she shrank into her corner. She checked the rising
sob that preluded a storm of rage and tears, stayed the frenzied impulse to shriek, to beat
on the doors, to do anything that might scare the villains; she sat frozen, staring, motionless.
For on the seat beside her, almost touching her, was a man.

In the dim light it was not easy to make out more than his figure. He sat huddled up in his
corner, his wig awry, one hand to his face; gazing at her, she fancied, between his fingers,
enjoying the play of her rage, her agitation, her disorder. He did not move or speak when she
discovered him, but in the circumstances that he was a man was enough. The violence with which
she had been treated, the audacity of such an outrage in daylight and on the highway, the closed
and darkened carriage, the speed at which they travelled, all were grounds for alarm as serious
as a woman could feel; and Julia, though she was a brave woman, felt a sudden horror come over
her. None the less was her mind made up; if the man moved nearer to her, if he stretched out
so much as his hand towards her, she would tear his face with her fingers. She sat with them
on her lap and felt them as steel to do her bidding.

The carriage rumbled on, and still he did not move. From her corner she watched him, her eyes
glittering with excitement, her breath coming quick and short. Would he never move? In truth
not three minutes had elapsed since she discovered him beside her; but it seemed to her that
she had sat there an age watching him; ay, three ages. The light was dim and untrustworthy,
stealing in through a crack here and a crevice there. The carriage swayed and shook with the
speed at which it travelled. More than once she thought that the man's hand, which rested on
the seat beside him, a fat white hand, hateful, dubious, was moving, moving slowly and stealthily
along the cushion towards her; and she waited shuddering, a scream on her lips. That was the last
straw. I told him on the spot that I was through with him and I went to pack my trunk. He
came later to my room; he begged me to remain, assured me that there wasn't anything to be angry
at, that I must excuse the ill-humoredness of old age ... He insisted so much that I agreed
to stay.

"I am nearing the end, Procopio," he said to me that evening. "I can't live much longer. I
am upon the verge of the grave. You will go to my burial, Procopio. Under no circumstances
will I excuse you. You shall go, you shall pray over my tomb. And if you don't," he added, laughing,
"my ghost will come at night and pull you by the legs. Do you believe
in souls of the other world, Procopio?"

"Nonsense!"

Julia drew a deep breath and leaned forward, scarcely able to believe her ears. But the man
moaned again; and then, as if the shaking had roused him from a state of stupor, sat up slowly
in his corner; she saw, peering more closely at him, that he had been strangely huddled before.
At last he lowered his hand from his face and disclosed his features. It was--her astonishment
was immense--it was Mr. Thomasson!

In her surprise Julia uttered a cry. The tutor opened his eyes and looked languidly at her;
muttered something incoherent about his head, and shut his eyes again, letting his chin fall
on his breast.

But the girl was in a mood only one degree removed from frenzy. She leaned forward and shook
his arm. 'Mr. Thomasson!' she cried. 'Mr. Thomasson!'

Apparently the name and the touch were more effectual. He opened his eyes and sat up with a
start of recognition, feigned or real. On his temple just under the edge of his wig, which
was awry, was a slight cut. He felt it gingerly with his fingers, glanced at them, and finding
them stained with blood, shuddered. 'I am afraid--I am hurt,' he muttered.

His languor and her excitement went ill together. She doubted he was pretending, and had a
hundred ill-defined, half-formed suspicions of him. Was it possible that he--he had dared to
contrive this? Or was he employed by others--by another? 'Who hurt you?' she cried sharply.
At least she was not afraid of him.

He pointed in the direction of the horses. 'They did,' he said stupidly. 'I saw it from the
lane and ran to help you. The man I seized struck me--here. Then, I suppose they feared I should
raise the country on them. And they forced me in--I don't well remember how.'

'And that is all you know?' she cried imperiously.

His look convinced her. 'Then help me now!' she replied, rising impetuously to her feet, and
steadying herself by setting one hand against the back of the carriage. 'Shout! Scream! Threaten
them! Don't you see that every yard we are carried puts us farther in their power? Shout!--do
you hear?'

'They will murder us!' he protested faintly. His cheeks were pale; his face wore a scared look,
and he trembled visibly.

'Let them!' she answered passionately, beating on the nearest door. 'Better that than be in
their hands. Help! Help! Help here!'

Her shrieks rose above the rumble of the wheels and the steady trampling of the horses; she
added to the noise by kicking and beating on the door with the fury of a mad woman. Mr. Thomasson
had had enough of violence for that day; and shrank from anything that might bring on him the
fresh wrath of his captors. But a moment's reflection showed him that if he allowed himself
to be carried on he would, sooner or later, find himself face to face with Mr. Dunborough;
and, in any case, that it was now his interest to stand by his companion; and presently he
too fell to shouting and drumming on the panels. There was a quaver, indeed, in his 'Help!
Help!' that a little betrayed the man; but in the determined clamour which she raised and continued
to maintain, it passed well enough.

'If we meet any one--they must hear us!' she gasped, presently, pausing a moment to take breath.
'Which way are we going?'

'Towards Calne, I think,' he answered, continuing to drum on the door in the intervals of speech.
'In the street we must be heard.'

'Help! Help!' she screamed, still more recklessly. She was growing hoarse, and the prospect
terrified her. 'Do you hear? Stop, villains! Help! Help! Help!'

'Murder!' Mr. Thomasson shouted, seconding her with voice and fist. 'Murder! Murder!'

But in the last word, despite his valiant determination to throw in his lot with her, was a
sudden, most audible, quaver. The carriage was beginning to draw up; and that which he had
imperiously demanded a moment before, he now as urgently dreaded. Not so Julia; her natural
courage had returned, and the moment the vehicle came to a standstill and the door was opened,
she flung herself towards it. The next instant she was pushed forcibly back by the muzzle of
a huge horse-pistol which a man outside clapped to her breast; while the glare of the bull's-eye
lanthorn which he thrust in her face blinded her.

The man uttered the most horrid imprecations. 'You noisy slut,' he growled, shoving his face,
hideous in its crape mask, into the coach, and speaking in a voice husky with liquor, 'will
you stop your whining? Or must I blow you to pieces with my Toby? For you, you white-livered
sneak,' he continued, addressing the tutor, 'give me any more of your piping and I'll cut out
your tongue! Who is hurting you, I'd like to know! As for you, my fine lady, have a care of
your skin, for if I pull you out into the road it will be the worse for you! D'ye hear me?
he continued, with a volley of savage oaths. 'A little more of your music, and I'll have you
out and strip the clothes off your back! You don't hang me for nothing. D--n you, we are three
miles from anywhere, and I have a mind to gag you, whether or no! And I will too, if you so
much as open your squeaker again!'

'Let me go,' she cried faintly. 'Let me go.'

'Oh, you will be let go fast enough--the other side of the water,' he answered, with a villainous
laugh. 'I'm bail to that. In the meantime keep a still tongue, or it will be the worse for
you! Once out of Bristol, and you may pipe as you like!'

The girl fell back in her corner with a low wail of despair. The man seeing the effect he had
wrought, laughed his triumph, and in sheer brutality passed his light once or twice across
her face. Then he closed the door with a crash and mounted; the carriage bounded forward again,
and in a trice was travelling onward as rapidly as before.

Night had set in, and darkness, a darkness that could almost be felt, reigned in the interior
of the chaise. Neither of the travellers could now see the other, though they sat within arm's
length. The tutor, as soon as they were well started, and his nerves, shaken by the man's threats,
permitted him to think of anything save his own safety, began to wonder that his companion,
who had been so forward before, did not now speak; to look for her to speak, and to find the
darkness and this silence, which left him to feed on his fears, strangely uncomfortable. He
could almost believe that she was no longer there. At length, unable to bear it longer, he spoke.

'I suppose you know,' he said--he was growing vexed with the girl who had brought him into
this peril--'who is at the bottom of this?'

She did not answer, or rather she answered only by a sudden burst of weeping; not the light,
facile weeping of a woman crossed or over-fretted, or frightened; but the convulsive heart-rending
sobbing of utter grief and abandonment.

The tutor heard, and was at first astonished, then alarmed. 'My dear, good girl, don't cry
like that,' he said awkwardly. 'Don't! I--I don't understand it. You--you frighten me. You--you
really should not. I only asked you if you knew whose work this was.'

'I know! I know only too well!' she cried passionately. 'God help me! God help all women!'

Mr. Thomasson wondered whether she referred to the future and her own fate. In that case, her
complete surrender to despair seemed strange, seemed even inexplicable, in one who a few minutes
before had shown a spirit above a woman's. Or did she know something that he did not know?
Something that caused this sudden collapse. The thought increased his uneasiness; the coward
dreads everything, and his nerves were shaken. 'Pish! pish!' he said pettishly. 'You should
not give way like that! You should not, you must not give way!'

'And why not?' she cried, arresting her sobs. There was a ring of expectation in her voice,
a hoping against hope. He fancied that she had lowered her hands and was peering at him.

'Because we--we may yet contrive something' he answered lamely. 'We--we may be rescued. Indeed--I
am sure we shall be rescued,' he continued, fighting his fears as well as hers.

'And what if we are?' she cried with a passion that took him aback. 'What if we are? What better
am I if we are rescued? Oh, I would have done anything for him! I would have died for him!'
she continued wildly. 'And he has done this for me. I would have given him all, all freely,
for no return if he would have it so; and this is his requital! This is the way he has gone
to get it. Oh, vile! vile!'

Mr. Thomasson started. Metaphorically, he was no longer in the dark. She fancied that Sir George,
Sir George whom she loved, was the contriver of this villainy. She thought that Sir George--Sir
George, her cousin--was the abductor; that she was being carried off, not for her own sake,
but as an obstacle to be removed from his path. The conception took the tutor's breath away;
he was even staggered for the moment, it agreed as well with one part of the facts. And when
an instant later his own certain information came to his aid and showed him its unreality,
and he would have blurted out the truth--he hesitated. The words were on the tip of his tongue,
the sentence was arranged, but he hesitated.

Why? Simply because he was Mr. Thomasson, and it was not in his nature to do the thing that
lay before him until he had considered whether it might not profit him to do something else.
In this case the bare statement that Mr. Dunborough, and not Sir George, was the author of
the outrage, would go for little with her. If he proceeded to his reasons he might convince
her; but he would also fix himself with a fore-knowledge of the danger--a fore-knowledge which
he had not imparted to her, and which must sensibly detract from the merit of the service he
had already and undoubtedly performed.

This was a risk; and there was a farther consideration. Why give Mr. Dunborough new ground
for complaint by discovering him? True, at Bristol she would learn the truth. But if she did
not reach Bristol? If they were overtaken midway? In that case the tutor saw possibilities,
if he kept his mouth shut--possibilities of profit at Mr. Dunborough's hands.

In intervals between fits of alarm--when the carriage seemed to be about to halt--he turned
these things over. He could hear the girl weeping in her corner, quietly, but in a heart-broken
manner; and continually, while he thought and she wept, and an impenetrable curtain of darkness
hid the one from the other, the chaise held on its course up-hill and down-hill, now bumping
and rattling behind flying horses, and now rumbling and straining up Yatesbury Downs.

At last he broke the silence. 'What makes you think,' he said, 'that it is Sir George has done
this?'

She did not answer or stop weeping for a while. Then, 'He was to meet me at sunset, at the
Corner,' she said. 'Who else knew that I should be there? Tell me that.'

'But if he is at the bottom of this, where is he?' he hazarded. 'If he would play the villain
with you--'

'He would play the thief,' she cried passionately, 'as he has played the hypocrite. Oh, it
is vile! vile!'

'But--I don't understand,' Mr. Thomasson stammered; he was willing to hear all he could.

'His fortune, his lands, all he has in the world are mine!' she cried. 'Mine! And he goes this
way to recover them! But I could forgive him that, ah, I could forgive him that, but I cannot
forgive him--'

'What?' he said.

'His love!' she cried fiercely. 'That I will never forgive him! Never!'

He knew that she spoke, as she had wept, more freely for the darkness. He fancied that she
was writhing on her seat, that she was tearing her handkerchief with her hands. 'But--it may
not be he,' he said after a silence broken only by the rumble of wheels and the steady trampling
of the horses.

'It is!' she cried. 'It is!'

'It may not--'

'I say it is!' she repeated in a kind of fury of rage, shame, and impatience. 'Do you think
that I who loved him, I whom he fooled to the top of my pride, judge him too harshly? I tell
you if an angel from heaven had witnessed against him I would have laughed the tale to scorn.
But I have seen--I have seen with my own eyes. The man who came to the door and threatened
us had lost a joint of the forefinger. Yesterday I saw that man with him; I saw the hand that
held the pistol to-day give him a note yesterday. I saw him read the note, and I saw him point
me out to the man who bore it--that he might know to-day whom he was to seize! Oh shame! Shame
on him!' And she burst into fresh weeping.

At that moment the chaise, which had been proceeding for some time at a more sober pace, swerved
sharply to one side; it appeared to sweep round a corner, jolted over a rough patch of ground,
and came to a stand.

CHAPTER XXII

FACILIS DESCENSUS

Let not those who would judge her harshly forget that Julia, to an impulsive and passionate
nature, added a special and notable disadvantage. She had been educated in a sphere alien from
that in which she now moved. A girl, brought up as Sir George's cousin and among her equals,
would have known him to be incapable of treachery as black as this. Such a girl, certified
of his love, not only by his words and looks but by her own self-respect and pride, would have
shut her eyes to the most pregnant facts and the most cogent inferences; and scorned all her
senses, one by one, rather than believe him guilty. {326}; but even when I wrote the Life of Sell,
was I not in a false position? Provided I had not misspent my time, would it have been necessary
to make that effort, which, after all, had only enabled me to leave
London, and wander about the country for a time?

But Julia had been bred in a lower condition, not far removed from that of the Pamela to whose
good fortune she had humbly likened her own; among people who regarded a Macaroni or a man
of fashion as a wolf ever seeking to devour. To distrust a gentleman and repel his advances
had been one of the first lessons instilled into her opening mind; nor had she more than emerged
from childhood before she knew that a laced coat forewent destruction, and held the wearer
of it a cozener, who in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred kept no faith with a woman beneath
him, but lived only to break hearts and bring grey hairs to the grave.

Out of this fixed belief she had been jolted by the upheaval that placed her on a level with
Sir George. Persuaded that the convention no longer applied to herself, she had given the rein
to her fancy and her girlish romance, no less than to her generosity; she had indulged in delicious
visions, and seen them grow real; nor probably in all St. James's was there a happier woman
than Julia when she found herself possessed of this lover of the prohibited class; who to the
charms and attractions, the nice-ness and refinement, which she had been bred to consider beyond
her reach, added a devotion, the more delightful--since he believed her to be only what she
seemed--as it lay in her power to reward it amply. Some women would have swooned with joy over
such a conquest effected in such circumstances. What wonder that Julia was deaf to the warnings
and surmises of Mr. Fishwick, whom delay and the magnitude of the stakes rendered suspicious,
as well as to the misgivings of old Mrs. Masterson, slow to grasp a new order of things? It
would have been strange had she listened to either, when youth, and wealth, and love all beckoned
one way.

But now, now in the horror and darkness of the post-chaise, the lawyer's warnings and the old
woman's misgivings returned on her with crushing weight; and more and heavier than these, her
old belief in the heartlessness, the perfidy of the man of rank. At the statement that a man
of the class with whom she had commonly mixed could so smile, while he played the villain,
as to deceive not only her eyes but her heart--she would have laughed. But on the mind that
lay behind the smooth and elegant mask of a gentleman's face she had no lights; or only the
old lights which showed it desperately wicked. Applying these to the circumstances, what a
lurid glare they shed on his behaviour! How quickly, how suspiciously quickly, had he succumbed
to her charms! How abruptly had his insouciance changed to devotion, his impertinence to respect!
How obtuse, how strangely dull had he been in the matter of her claims and her identity! Finally,
with what a smiling visage had he lured her to her doom, showed her to his tools, settled to
a nicety the least detail of the crime!

More weighty than any one fact, the thing he had said to her on the staircase at Oxford came
back to her mind. 'If you were a lady,' he had lisped in smiling insolence, 'I would kiss you
and make you my wife.' In face of those words, she had been rash enough to think that she could
bend him, ignorant that she was more than she seemed, to her purpose. She had quoted those
very words to him when she had had it in her mind to surrender--the sweetest surrender in the
world. And all the time he had been fooling her to the top of her bent. All the time he had
known who she was and been plotting against her devilishly--appointing hour and place and--and
it was all over.

It was all over. The sunny visions of love and joy were done! It was all over. When the sharp,
fierce pain of the knife had done its worst, the consciousness of that remained a dead weight
on her brain. When the paroxysm of weeping had worn itself out, yet brought no relief to her
passionate nature, a kind of apathy succeeded. She cared nothing where she was or what became
of her; the worst had happened, the worst been suffered. To be betrayed, cruelly, heartlessly,
without scruple or care by those we love--is there a sharper pain than this? She had suffered
that, she was suffering it still. What did the rest matter?

