A DEFENCE OF POESIE AND POEMS

Contents:

Introduction by Henry Morley A Defence of Poesie Poems

INTRODUCTION

Philip Sidney was born at Penshurst, in Kent, on the 29th of November, 1554.  His father, Sir
Henry Sidney, had married Mary, eldest daughter of John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland, and
Philip was the eldest of their family of three sons and four daughters. Edmund Spenser and
Walter Raleigh were of like age with Philip Sidney, differing only by about a year, and when
Elizabeth became queen, on the 17th of November, 1558, they were children of four or five years
old.

In the year 1560 Sir Henry Sidney was made Lord President of Wales, representing the Queen
in Wales and the four adjacent western counties, as a Lord Deputy represented her in Ireland.
The official residence of the Lord President was at Ludlow Castle, to which Philip Sidney went
with his family when a child of six.  In the same year his father was installed as a Knight
of the Garter.  When in his tenth year Philip Sidney was sent from Ludlow to Shrewsbury Grammar
School, where he studied for three or four years, and had among his schoolfellows Fulke Greville,
afterwards Lord Brooke, who remained until the end of Sidney's life one of his closest friends.
When he himself was dying he directed that he should be described upon his tomb as "Fulke Greville,
servant to Queen Elizabeth, counsellor to King James, and friend to Sir Philip Sidney."  Even
Dr. Thomas Thornton, Canon of Christ Church, Oxford, under whom Sidney was placed when he was
entered to Christ Church in his fourteenth year, at Midsummer, in 1568, had it afterwards recorded
on his tomb that he was "the tutor of Sir Philip Sidney."

Sidney was in his eighteenth year in May, 1572, when he left the University to continue his
training for the service of the state, by travel on the Continent.  Licensed to travel with
horses for himself and three servants, Philip Sidney left London in the train of the Earl of
Lincoln, who was going out as ambassador to Charles IX., in Paris.  He was in Paris on the
24th of August in that year, which was the day of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew.  He was
sheltered from the dangers of that day in the house of the English Ambassador, Sir Francis
Walsingham, whose daughter Fanny Sidney married twelve years afterwards.

From Paris Sidney travelled on by way of Heidelberg to Frankfort, where he lodged at a printer's,
and found a warm friend in Hubert Languet, whose letters to him have been published.  Sidney
was eighteen and Languet fifty-five, a French Huguenot, learned and zealous for the Protestant
cause, who had been Professor of Civil Law in Padua, and who was acting as secret minister
for the Elector of Saxony when he first knew Sidney, and saw in him a future statesman whose
character and genius would give him weight in the counsels of England, and make him a main
hope of the Protestant cause in Europe.  Sidney travelled on with Hubert Languet from Frankfort
to Vienna, visited Hungary, then passed to Italy, making for eight weeks Venice his head-quarters,
and then giving six weeks to Padua.  He returned through Germany to England, and was in attendance
it the Court of Queen Elizabeth in July, 1575.  Next month his father was sent to Ireland as
Lord Deputy, and Sidney lived in London with his mother.

At this time the opposition of the Mayor and Corporation of the City of London to the acting
of plays by servants of Sidney's uncle, the Earl of Leicester, who had obtained a patent for
them, obliged the actors to cease from hiring rooms or inn yards in the City, and build themselves
a house of their own a little way outside one of the City gates, and wholly outside the Lord
Mayor's jurisdiction. Thus the first theatre came to be built in England in the year 1576.
Shakespeare was then but twelve years old, and it was ten years later that he came to London.

In February, 1577, Philip Sidney, not yet twenty-three years old, was sent on a formal embassy
of congratulation to Rudolph II. upon his becoming Emperor of Germany, but under the duties
of the formal embassy was the charge of watching for opportunities of helping forward a Protestant
League among the princes of Germany.  On his way home through the Netherlands he was to convey
Queen Elizabeth's congratulations to William of Orange on the birth of his first child, and
what impression he made upon that leader of men is shown by a message William sent afterwards
through Fulke Greville to Queen Elizabeth.  He said "that if he could judge, her Majesty had
one of the ripest and greatest counsellors of State in Philip Sidney that then lived in Europe;
to the trial of which he was pleased to leave his own credit engaged until her Majesty was
pleased to employ this gentleman, either amongst her friends or enemies."

Sidney returned from his embassy in June, 1577.  At the time of his departure, in the preceding
February, his sister Mary, then twenty years old, had become the third wife of Henry Herbert,
Earl of Pembroke, and her new home as Countess of Pembroke was in the great house at Wilton,
about three miles from Salisbury.  She had a measure of her brother's genius, and was of like
noble strain. Spenser described her as

"The gentlest shepherdess that lives this day, And most resembling, both in shape and spright,
Her brother dear."  He had early in the year written a long argument to the Queen against the
project of her marriage with the Duke of Anjou, which she then found it politic to seem to
favour.  She liked Sidney well, but resented, or appeared to resent, his intrusion of advice;
he also was discontented with what seemed to be her policy, and he withdrew from Court for
a time. That time of seclusion, after the end of March, 1580, he spent with his sister at Wilton.
They versified psalms together; and he began to write for her amusement when she had her baby
first upon her hands, his romance of "Arcadia."  It was never finished.  Much was written at
Wilton in the summer of 1580, the rest in 1581, written, as he said in a letter to her, "only
for you, only to you . . . for severer eyes it is not, being but a trifle, triflingly handled.
Your dear self can best witness the manner, being done in loose sheets of paper, most of it
in your presence, the rest by sheets sent unto you as fast as they were done."  He never meant
that it should be published; indeed, when dying he asked that it should be destroyed; but it
belonged to a sister who prized the lightest word of his, and after his death it was published
in 1590 as "The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia."

The book reprinted in this volume was written in 1581, while sheets of the "Arcadia" were still
being sent to Wilton.  But it differs wholly in style from the "Arcadia." 3 and 4 of Young People.
They are the contributions of H. W. K., Jessie Beal, J. A. Wells, H. W. P., J. M. W., Lil, A. D. Crane,
S. R. W., Fred Houston, and H. E. M. Wiggles similar in design were also received from Cyrus
O., Virgie Cumings, W. G. Page, J. H. Grensel, Sadie Vairin, and others. Next week we shall show
you what we make from wiggle No. 4, and at the same time give a new one.
We wish all our young readers and correspondents a very happy New-Year,
success in their studies, and pleasant hours with teachers and school-mates.
  His
style is wholly free from the euphuistic extravagance in which readers of his time delighted:
it is clear, direct, and manly; not the less, but the more, thoughtful and refined for its
unaffected simplicity. As criticism it is of the true sort; not captious or formal, still less
engaged, as nearly all bad criticism is, more or less, with indirect suggestion of the critic
himself as the one owl in a world of mice.  Philip Sidney's care is towards the end of good
literature.  He looks for highest aims, and finds them in true work, and hears God's angel
in the poet's song.

The writing of this piece was probably suggested to him by the fact that an earnest young student,
Stephen Gosson, who came from his university about the time when the first theatres were built,
and wrote plays, was turned by the bias of his mind into agreement with the Puritan attacks
made by the pulpit on the stage (arising chiefly from the fact that plays were then acted on
Sundays), and in 1579 transferred his pen from service of the players to attack on them, in
a piece which he called "The School of Abuse, containing a Pleasant Invective against Poets,
Pipers, Players, Jesters, and such like Caterpillars of a Commonwealth; setting up the Flag
of Defiance to their mischievous exercise, and overthrowing their Bulwarks, by Profane Writers,
Natural Reason, and Common Experience:  a Discourse as pleasant for Gentlemen that favour Learning
as profitable for all that will follow Virtue."  This Discourse Gosson dedicated "To the right
noble Gentleman, Master Philip Sidney, Esquire."  Sidney himself wrote verse, he was companion
with the poets, and counted Edmund Spenser among his friends.  Gosson's pamphlet was only one
expression of the narrow form of Puritan opinion that had been misled into attacks on poetry
and music as feeders of idle appetite that withdrew men from the life of duty.  To show the
fallacy in such opinion, Philip Sidney wrote in 1581 this piece, which was first printed in
1595, nine years after his death, as a separate publication, entitled "An Apologie for Poetrie."
Three years afterwards it was added, with other pieces, to the third edition of his "Arcadia,"
and then entitled "The Defence of Poesie."  In sixteen subsequent editions it continued to
appear as "The Defence of Poesie."  The same title was used in the separate editions of 1752
and 1810.  Professor Edward Arber re-issued in 1869 the text of the first edition of 1595,
and restored the original title, which probably was that given to the piece by its author.
One name is as good as the other, but as the word "apology" has somewhat changed its sense
in current English, it may be well to go on calling the work "The Defence of Poesie."

In 1583 Sidney was knighted, and soon afterwards in the same year he married Frances, daughter
of Sir Francis Walsingham.  Sonnets written by him according to old fashion, and addressed
to a lady in accordance with a form of courtesy that in the same old fashion had always been
held to exclude personal suit--personal suit was private, and not public--have led to grave
misapprehension among some critics.  They supposed that he desired marriage with Penelope Devereux,
who was forced by her family in 1580--then eighteen years old--into a hateful marriage with
Lord Rich.  It may be enough to say that if Philip Sidney had desired her for his wife, he
had only to ask for her and have her.  Her father, when dying, had desired-- as any father
might--that his daughter might become the wife of Philip Sidney.  But this is not the place
for a discussion of Astrophel and Stella sonnets.

In 1585 Sidney was planning to join Drake it sea in attack on Spain in the West Indies.  He
was stayed by the Queen.  But when Elizabeth declared war on behalf of the Reformed Faith,
and sent Leicester with an expedition to the Netherlands, Sir Philip Sidney went out, in November,
1585, as Governor of Flushing.  His wife joined him there.  He fretted at inaction, and made
the value of his counsels so distinct that his uncle Leicester said after his death that he
began by "despising his youth for a counsellor, not without bearing a hand over him as a forward
young man.  Notwithstanding, in a short time he saw the sun so risen above his horizon that
both he and all his stars were glad to fetch light from him."  In May, 1586, Sir Philip Sidney
received news of the death of his father.  In August his mother died.  In September he joined
in the investment of Zutphen.  On the 22nd of September his thigh-bone was shattered by a musket
ball from the trenches.  His horse took fright and galloped back, but the wounded man held
to his seat.  He was then carried to his uncle, asked for water, and when it was given, saw
a dying soldier carried past, who eyed it greedily.  At once he gave the water to the soldier,
saying, "Thy necessity is yet greater than mine."  Sidney lived on, patient in suffering, until
the 17th of October.  When he was speechless before death, one who stood by asked Philip Sidney
for a sign of his continued trust in God.  He folded his hands as in prayer over his breast,
and so they were become fixed and chill, when the watchers placed them by his side; and in
a few minutes the stainless representative of the young manhood of Elizabethan England passed away.

AN APOLOGIE FOR POETRIE

When the right virtuous Edward Wotton {1} and I were at the Emperor's court together, we gave
ourselves to learn horsemanship of Gio. Pietro Pugliano; one that, with great commendation,
had the place of an esquire in his stable; and he, according to the fertileness of the Italian
wit, did not only afford us the demonstration of his practice, but sought to enrich our minds
with the contemplation therein, which he thought most precious.  But with none, I remember,
mine ears were at any time more laden, than when (either angered with slow payment, or moved
with our learner-like admiration) he exercised his speech in the praise of his faculty.

He said, soldiers were the noblest estate of mankind, and horsemen the noblest of soldiers.
He said, they were the masters of war and ornaments of peace, speedy goers, and strong abiders,
triumphers both in camps and courts; nay, to so unbelieved a point he proceeded, as that no
earthly thing bred such wonder to a prince, as to be a good horseman; skill of government was
but a "pedanteria" in comparison.  Then would he add certain praises by telling what a peerless
beast the horse was, the only serviceable courtier, without flattery, the beast of most beauty,
faithfulness, courage, and such more, that if I had not been a piece of a logician before I
came to him, I think he would have persuaded me to have wished myself a horse.  But thus much,
at least, with his no few words, he drove into me, that self love is better than any gilding,
to make that seem gorgeous wherein ourselves be parties.

Wherein, if Pugliano's strong affection and weak arguments will not satisfy you, I will give
you a nearer example of myself, who, I know not by what mischance, in these my not old years
and idlest times, having slipped into the title of a poet, am provoked to say something unto
you in the defence of that my unelected vocation; which if I handle with more good will than
good reasons, bear with me, since the scholar is to be pardoned that followeth the steps of
his master. 

I want to write a note to tell you how I came to take Young People. One evening papa brought
me the first two numbers, and I enjoyed the "Swiss Boy" and the other stories so much that I
thought I would like to take it. So my papa, my mamma, my two brothers, and I myself gave something
toward it, and I shall expect it with pleasure every week.

KEBLE D.

* * * * *

GALENA, ILLINOIS.

I like Harper's Young People very much. The illustrations
are beautiful, and the Post-office Box and all the other reading very
interesting. I read all the letters in the Post-office, and contribute
this, my first newspaper correspondence, to that department. The picture
"The Day Before Thanksgiving," on the first page of No. 4, is very
comical, and reminds me of things I have seen myself.  And will you play the hedgehog, that being received into the den, drove out his
host? {3} or rather the vipers, that with their birth kill their parents? {4}

Let learned Greece, in any of her manifold sciences, be able to show me one book before Musaeus,
Homer, and Hesiod, all three nothing else but poets.  Nay, let any history he brought that
can say any writers were there before them, if they were not men of the same skill, as Orpheus,
Linus, and some others are named, who having been the first of that country that made pens
deliverers of their knowledge to posterity, may justly challenge to be called their fathers
in learning.  For not only in time they had this priority (although in itself antiquity be
venerable) but went before them as causes to draw with their charming sweetness the wild untamed
wits to an admiration of knowledge.  So as Amphion was said to move stones with his poetry
to build Thebes, and Orpheus to be listened to by beasts, indeed, stony and beastly people,
so among the Romans were Livius Andronicus, and Ennius; so in the Italian language, the first
that made it to aspire to be a treasure-house of science, were the poets Dante, Boccace, and
Petrarch; so in our English were Gower and Chaucer; after whom, encouraged and delighted with
their excellent foregoing, others have followed to beautify our mother tongue, as well in the
same kind as other arts.

This {5} did so notably show itself that the philosophers of Greece durst not a long time appear
to the world but under the mask of poets; so Thales, Empedocles, and Parmenides sang their
natural philosophy in verses; so did Pythagoras and Phocylides their moral counsels; so did
Tyrtaeus in war matters; and Solon in matters of policy; or rather they, being poets, did exercise
their delightful vein in those points of highest knowledge, which before them lay hidden to
the world; for that wise Solon was directly a poet it is manifest, having written in verse
the notable fable of the Atlantic Island, which was continued by Plato. {6}  And, truly, even
Plato, whosoever well considereth shall find that in the body of his work, though the inside
and strength were philosophy, the skin, as it were, and beauty depended most of poetry.  For
all stands upon dialogues; wherein he feigns many honest burgesses of Athens speaking of such
matters that if they had been set on the rack they would never have confessed them; besides,
his poetical describing the circumstances of their meetings, as the well-ordering of a banquet,
the delicacy of a walk, with interlacing mere tiles, as Gyges's Ring, {7} and others; which,
who knows not to be flowers of poetry, did never walk into Apollo's garden.

And {8} even historiographers, although their lips sound of things done, and verity be written
in their foreheads, have been glad to borrow both fashion and, perchance, weight of the poets;
so Herodotus entitled the books of his history by the names of the Nine Muses; and both he,
and all the rest that followed him, either stole or usurped, of poetry, their passionate describing
of passions, the many particularities of battles which no man could affirm; or, if that be
denied me, long orations, put in the months of great kings and captains, which it is certain
they never pronounced.

So that, truly, neither philosopher nor historiographer could, at the first, have entered into
the gates of popular judgments, if they had not taken a great disport of poetry; which in all
nations, at this day, where learning flourisheth not, is plain to be seen; in all which they
have some feeling of poetry.  In Turkey, besides their lawgiving divines they have no other
writers but poets.  In our neighbour-country Ireland, where, too, learning goes very bare,
yet are their poets held in a devout reverence.  Even among the most barbarous and simple Indians,
where no writing is, yet have they their poets who make and sing songs, which they call "Arentos,"
both of their ancestor's deeds and praises of their gods.  A sufficient probability, that if
ever learning comes among them, it must be by having their hard dull wits softened and sharpened
with the sweet delight of poetry; for until they find a pleasure in the exercise of the mind,
great promises of much knowledge will little persuade them that know not the fruits of knowledge.
In Wales, the true remnant of the ancient Britons, as there are good authorities to show the
long time they had poets, which they called bards, so through all the conquests of Romans,
Saxons, Danes, and Normans, some of whom did seek to ruin all memory of learning from among
them, yet do their poets, even to this day, last; so as it is not more notable in the soon
beginning than in long-continuing.

But since the authors of most of our sciences were the Romans, and before them the Greeks,
let us, a little, stand upon their authorities; but even so far, as to see what names they
have given unto this now scorned skill. {9}  Among the Romans a poet was called "vates," which
is as much as a diviner, foreseer, or prophet, as by his conjoined words "vaticinium," and
"vaticinari," is manifest; so heavenly a title did that excellent people bestow upon this heart-
ravishing knowledge!  And so far were they carried into the admiration thereof, that they thought
in the changeable hitting upon any such verses, great foretokens of their following fortunes
were placed.  Whereupon grew the word of sortes Virgilianae; when, by sudden opening Virgil's
book, they lighted upon some verse, as it is reported by many, whereof the histories of the
Emperors' lives are full.  As of Albinus, the governor of our island, who, in his childhood,
met with this verse -

Arma amens capio, nec sat rationis in armis

and in his age performed it.  Although it were a very vain and godless superstition; as also
it was, to think spirits were commanded by such verses; whereupon this word charms, derived
of "carmina," cometh, so yet serveth it to show the great reverence those wits were held in;
and altogether not without ground, since both the oracles of Delphi and the Sibyl's prophecies
were wholly delivered in verses; for that same exquisite observing of number and measure in
the words, and that high-flying liberty of conceit proper to the poet, did seem to have some
divine force in it.

And {10} may not I presume a little farther to show the reasonableness of this word "vates,"
and say, that the holy David's Psalms are a divine poem?  If I do, I shall not do it without
the testimony of great learned men, both ancient and modern.  But even the name of Psalms will
speak for me, which, being interpreted, is nothing but Songs; then, that is fully written in
metre, as all learned Hebricians agree, although the rules be not yet fully found. Lastly,
and principally, his handling his prophecy, which is merely poetical.  For what else is the
awaking his musical instruments; the often and free changing of persons; his notable prosopopoeias,
when he maketh you, as it were, see God coming in His majesty; his telling of the beasts' joyfulness,
and hills leaping; but a heavenly poesy, wherein, almost, he sheweth himself a passionate lover
of that unspeakable and everlasting beauty, to be seen by the eyes of the mind, only cleared
by faith?  But truly, now, having named him, I fear I seem to profane that holy name, applying
it to poetry, which is, among us, thrown down to so ridiculous an estimation.  But they that,
with quiet judgments, will look a little deeper into it, shall find the end and working of
it such, as, being rightly applied, deserveth not to be scourged out of the church of God.

But {11} now let us see how the Greeks have named it, and how they deemed of it.  The Greeks
named him [Greek text], which name hath, as the most excellent, gone through other languages;
it cometh of this word [Greek text], which is TO MAKE; wherein, I know not whether by luck
or wisdom, we Englishmen have met with the Greeks in calling him "a maker," which name, how
high and incomparable a title it is, I had rather were known by marking the scope of other
sciences, than by any partial allegation.  There is no art delivered unto mankind that hath
not the works of nature for his principal object, without which they could not consist, and
on which they so depend as they become actors and players, as it were, of what nature will
have set forth. {12}  So doth the astronomer look upon the stars, and by that he seeth set
down what order nature hath taken therein.  So doth the geometrician and arithmetician, in
their diverse sorts of quantities.  So doth the musician, in times, tell you which by nature
agree, which not.  The natural philosopher thereon hath his name; and the moral philosopher
standeth upon the natural virtues, vices, or passions of man; and follow nature, saith he,
therein, and thou shalt not err.  The lawyer saith what men have determined.  The historian,
what men have done.  The grammarian speaketh only of the rules of speech; and the rhetorician
and logician, considering what in nature will soonest prove and persuade, thereon give artificial
rules, which still are compassed within the circle of a question, according to the proposed
matter. The physician weigheth the nature of man's body, and the nature of things helpful and
hurtful unto it.  And the metaphysic, though it be in the second and abstract notions, and
therefore be counted supernatural, yet doth he, indeed, build upon the depth of nature. Only
the poet, disdaining to be tied to any such subjection, lifted up with the vigour of his own
invention, doth grow, in effect, into another nature; in making things either better than nature
bringeth forth, or quite anew; forms such as never were in nature, as the heroes, demi-gods,
Cyclops, chimeras, furies, and such like; so as he goeth hand in hand with Nature, not enclosed
within the narrow warrant of her gifts, but freely ranging within the zodiac of his own wit.
{13}   Nature never set forth the earth in so rich tapestry as divers poets have done; neither
with so pleasant rivers, fruitful trees, sweet-smelling flowers, nor whatsoever else may make
the too- much-loved earth more lovely; her world is brazen, the poets only deliver a golden.

But let those things alone, and go to man; {14} for whom as the other things are, so it seemeth
in him her uttermost cunning is employed; and know, whether she have brought forth so true
a lover as Theagenes; so constant a friend as Pylades; so valiant a man as Orlando; so right
a prince as Xenophon's Cyrus; and so excellent a man every way as Virgil's AEneas?  Neither
let this be jestingly conceived, because the works of the one be essential, the other in imitation
or fiction; for every understanding knoweth the skill of each artificer standeth in that idea,
or fore-conceit of the work, and not in the work itself.  And that the poet hath that idea
is manifest by delivering them forth in such excellency as he had imagined them; which delivering
forth, also, is not wholly imaginative, as we are wont to say by them that build castles in
the air; but so far substantially it worketh not only to make a Cyrus, which had been but a
particular excellency, as nature might have done; but to bestow a Cyrus upon the world to make
many Cyruses; if they will learn aright, why, and how, that maker made him.  Neither let it
be deemed too saucy a comparison to balance the highest point of man's wit with the efficacy
of nature; but rather give right honour to the heavenly Maker of that maker, who having made
man to His own likeness, set him beyond and over all the works of that second nature; which
in nothing he showeth so much as in poetry; when, with the force of a divine breath, he bringeth
things forth surpassing her doings, with no small arguments to the incredulous of that first
accursed fall of Adam; since our erected wit maketh us know what perfection is, and yet our
infected will keepeth us from reaching unto it.  But these arguments will by few be understood,
and by fewer granted; thus much I hope will be given me, that the Greeks, with some probability
of reason, gave him the name above all names of learning.

Now {15} let us go to a more ordinary opening of him, that the truth may be the more palpable;
and so, I hope, though we get not so unmatched a praise as the etymology of his names will
grant, yet his very description, which no man will deny, shall not justly be barred from a
principal commendation.

Poesy, {16} therefore, is an art of imitation; for so Aristotle termeth it in the word [Greek
text]; that is to say, a representing, counterfeiting, or figuring forth:  to speak metaphorically,
a speaking picture, with this end, to teach and delight.

Of {17} this have been three general kinds:  the CHIEF, both in antiquity and excellency, which
they that did imitate the inconceivable excellencies of God; such were David in the Psalms;
Solomon in the Song of Songs, in his Ecclesiastes, and Proverbs; Moses and Deborah in their
hymns; and the writer of Job; which, beside others, the learned Emanuel Tremellius and Fr.
Junius do entitle the poetical part of the scripture; against these none will speak that hath
the Holy Ghost in due holy reverence.  In this kind, though in a wrong divinity, were Orpheus,
Amphion, Homer in his hymns, and many others, both Greeks and Romans.  And this poesy must
be used by whosoever will follow St. Paul's counsel, in singing psalms when they are merry;
and I know is used with the fruit of comfort by some, when, in sorrowful pangs of their death-bringing
sins, they find the consolation of the never-leaving goodness.

The {18} SECOND kind is of them that deal with matter philosophical; either moral, as Tyrtaeus,
Phocylides, Cato, or, natural, as Lucretius, Virgil's Georgics; or astronomical, as Manilius
{19} and Pontanus; or historical, as Lucan; which who mislike, the fault is in their judgment,
quite out of taste, and not in the sweet food of sweetly uttered knowledge. 

GIRLS,

It is now a universal saying that the undersigned are the largest dealers in Scroll-Saws, Magic
Lanterns, Magical Tricks, Skates, Toy Engines, and ALL NEW NOVELTIES AS SOON AS MANUFACTURED. Send
for Catalogue of 192 pages, 700 Illustrations. Price 10 cents.

GAS,

The Modern Fuel,

When burned in one of Morton's admirable HEATERS,
realizes the predictions of scientists, that "THE USE OF GAS FOR HEATING
MUST SOON FAR OVERBALANCE ITS IMPORTANCE AS AN ILLUMINATOR."

These
Heaters are BEAUTIFUL, EFFECTIVE, and ECONOMICAL.

Interesting Illustrated
Circular sent to any person favoring us with his address.

Ask your
Gas Light Co. about these Heaters.

MORTON GAS STOVE CO.,

22 Frankfort
Street,

NEW YORK.  For these three be they which most properly do imitate to teach and delight; and
to imitate, borrow nothing of what is, hath been, or shall be; but range only, reined with
learned discretion, into the divine consideration of what may be, and should be.  These be
they, that, as the first and most noble sort, may justly be termed "vates;" so these are waited
on in the excellentest languages and best understandings, with the fore-described name of poets.
For these, indeed, do merely make to imitate, and imitate both to delight and teach, and delight
to move men to take that goodness in hand, which, without delight they would fly as from a
stranger; and teach to make them know that goodness whereunto they are moved; which being the
noblest scope to which ever any learning was directed, yet want there not idle tongues to bark
at them.

These {21} be subdivided into sundry more special denominations; the most notable be the heroic,
lyric, tragic, comic, satyric, iambic, elegiac, pastoral, and certain others; some of these
being termed according to the matter they deal with; some by the sort of verse they like best
to write in; for, indeed, the greatest part of poets have apparelled their poetical inventions
in that numerous kind of writing which is called verse.  Indeed, but apparelied verse, being
but an ornament, and no cause to poetry, since there have been many most excellent poets that
never versified, and now swarm many versifiers that need never answer to the name of poets.
{22}  For Xenophon, who did imitate so excellently as to give us effigiem justi imperii, the
portraiture of a just of Cyrus, as Cicero saith of him, made therein an absolute heroical poem.
So did Heliodorus, {23} in his sugared invention of Theagenes and Chariclea; and yet both these
wrote in prose; which I speak to show, that it is not rhyming and versing that maketh a poet
(no more than a long gown maketh an advocate, who, though he pleaded in armour should be an
advocate and no soldier); but it is that feigning notable images of virtues, vices, or what
else, with that delightful teaching, which must be the right describing note to know a poet
by.  Although, indeed, the senate of poets have chosen verse as their fittest raiment; meaning,
as in matter they passed all in all, so in manner to go beyond them; not speaking table-talk
fashion, or like men in a dream, words as they changeably fall from the mouth, but piecing
each syllable of each word by just proportion, according to the dignity of the subject.

