The moral effect of the action at Lodi was incalculable. Bonaparte's reputation as a strategist
had already been established, but his personal courage had never been tested. The actual battle-field
is something quite different from the great theater of war, and men wondered whether he had
the same mastery of the former as of the latter. Hitherto he had been untried either as to
his tactics or his intrepidity. In both respects Lodi elevated him literally to the stars.
No doubt the risk he took was awful, and the loss of life terrible. Critics, too, have pointed
out safer ways which they believe would have led to the same result; be that as it may, in
no other way could the same dramatic effect have been produced. France went wild with joy.
The peoples of Italy bowed before the prodigy which thus both paralyzed and fascinated them
all. Austria was dispirited, and her armies were awe-stricken. At one o'clock, through habit and
not because he was hungry, he went out and had a lonely lunch at a small restaurant, sitting
at a marble-topped table which imparted to him something of its chill. After that he loafed
about looking at things till dusk. Dusk was quite unbearable. He fled back to the studio,
made up a stupendous fire, lit a pipe and mused.

He decided not to go home that night. He felt hurt and ill-used. He
would stay in town and have a thoroughly good time. He himself confessed that after Lodi some conception of
his high destiny arose in his mind for the first time.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

An Insubordinate Conqueror and Diplomatist.

     Bonaparte's Assertion of Independence -- Helplessness of the
     Directory -- Threats and Proclamations -- The General and
     His Officers -- Bonaparte's Comprehensive Genius -- The
     Devotion of France -- Uneasiness in Italy -- The Position of
     the Austrians -- Bonaparte's Strategy -- His Conception of
     the Problem in Italy -- Justification of His Foresight --
     Modena, Parma, and the Papacy -- The French Radicals and the
     Pope -- Bonaparte's Policy -- His Ambition.

[Sidenote: 1796.]

When the news of the successes in Piedmont reached Paris, public festivals were decreed and
celebrated; but the democratic spirit of the directors could brook neither the contemptuous
disregard of their plan which Bonaparte had shown, nor his arrogant assumption of diplomatic
plenipotence. Knowing how thoroughly their doctrine had permeated Piedmont, they had intended
to make it a republic. It was exasperating, therefore, that through Bonaparte's meddling they
found themselves still compelled to carry on negotiations with a monarchy. The treaty with
the King of Sardinia was ungraciously dictated and signed by them on May fifteenth, but previous
to the act they determined to clip the wings of their dangerous falcon. This they thought to
accomplish by assigning Kellermann to share with Bonaparte the command of the victorious army,
and by confirming Salicetti as their diplomatic plenipotentiary to accompany it. The news reached
the conqueror at Lodi on the eve of his triumphant entry into Milan. "As things now are," he
promptly replied to the Directory, "you must have a general who possesses your entire confidence.
If I must refer every step to government commissioners, if they have the right to change my
movements, to withdraw or send troops, expect nothing good hereafter." To Carnot he wrote at
the same time: "I believe one bad general to be worth two good ones.... War is like government,
a matter of tact.... I do not wish to be hampered. I have begun with some glory; I wish to
continue worthy of you." A casual inquiry as to price elicited the statement that it would be four
guineas. I cut short a rambling discourse, in which the tailor sought to saddle various remote
agencies with the responsibility for the increase, and stamped out of the establishment with
the blasphemous vow that I'd get a pair ready-made at the Stores.

That evening I received a reply from the Insurance people:--

"In all communications please quote Ref. No. 73856/SP/QR.

"SIR,--We
note your claim for garments injured by an outbreak of fire at your
residence. We await the reports of the Fire Brigade and Salvage Corps,
on receipt of which we will again communicate with you. Meanwhile,
will you kindly inform us what other damage was done?

"We are, yours,
etc." Such, however, was
the exultation of the Parisian populace and of the soldiery, that the degradation or even the
forced resignation of the conquering dictator would have at once assured the fall of the directors.
They could not even protest when, soon after, there came from Bonaparte a despatch announcing
that the articles of "the glorious peace which you have concluded with the King of Sardinia"
had reached "us," and significantly adding in a later paragraph that the troops were content,
having received half their pay in coin. Voices in Paris declared that for such language the
writer should be shot. Perhaps those who put the worst interpretation on the apparently harmless
words were correct in their instinct. In reality the Directory had been wholly dependent on
the army since the previous October; and while such an offensive insinuation of the fact would
be, if intentional, most unpalatable, yet those who had profited by the fact dared not resent
a remote reference to it.

The farce was continued for some time longer, Bonaparte playing his part with singular ability.
He sent to Kellermann, in Savoy, without the form of transmitting it through government channels,
a subsidy of one million two hundred thousand francs. As long as he was unhampered, his despatches
to Paris were soldierly and straightforward, although after the passage of the Po they began
to be somewhat bombastic, and to abound in his old-fashioned, curious, and sometimes incorrect
classical or literary allusions. But if he were crossed in the least, if reinforcements did
not arrive, or if there were any sign of independence in Paris, they became petulant, talking
of ill-health, threatening resignation, and requesting that numbers of men be sent out to replace
him in the multiform functions which in his single person he was performing. Of course these
tirades often failed of immediate effect, but at least no effort was made to put an effective
check on the writer's career. Read a century later in a cold and critical light, Bonaparte's
proclamations of the same period seem stilted, jerky, and theatrical. In them, however, there
may still be found a sort of interstitial sentimentality, and in an age of romantic devotion
to ideals the quality of vague suggestiveness passed for genuine coin. Whatever else was lacking
in those compositions, they had the one supreme merit of accomplishing their end, for they
roused the French soldiers to frenzied enthusiasm.

In fact, if the Directory stood on the army, the army belonged henceforth to Bonaparte. On
the very day that Milan was entered, Marmont heard from his leader's lips the memorable words,
"Fortune is a woman; the more she does for me, the more I shall exact from her.... In our day
no one has conceived anything great; it falls to me to give the example." This is the language
that soldiers like to hear from their leader, and it was no doubt repeated throughout the army.
"From this moment," wrote the same chronicler, a few months later, "the chief part of the pay
and salaries was in coin. This led to a great change in the situation of the officers, and
to a certain extent in their habits." Bonaparte was incorruptible. Salicetti announced one
day that the brother of the Duke of Modena was waiting outside with four chests containing
a million of francs in gold, and urged the general, as a friend and compatriot, to accept them.
"Thank you," was the calm and significant answer, "I shall not put myself in the hands of the
Duke of Modena for such a sum." But similar propositions were made by the commander-in-chief
to his subordinates, and they with less prudence fell into the trap, taking all they could
lay hands upon and thus becoming the bond-slaves of their virtuous leader. There were stories
at the time that some of the generals, not daring to send their ill-gotten money to France,
and having no opportunity for investing it elsewhere, actually carried hundreds of thousands
of francs in their baggage. This prostitution of his subordinates was part of a system. Twenty
million francs was approximately the sum total of all contributions announced to the Directory,
and in their destitution it seemed enormous. They also accepted with pleasure a hundred of
the finest horses in Lombardy to replace, as Bonaparte wrote on sending his present, the ordinary
ones which drew their carriages. Was this paltry four million dollars the whole of what was
derived from the sequestrations of princely domains and the secularization of ecclesiastical
estates? By no means. The army chest, of which none knew the contents but Bonaparte, was as
inexhaustible as the widow's cruse. At the opening of the campaign in Piedmont, empty wagons
had been ostentatiously displayed as representing the military funds at the commander's disposal:
these same vehicles now groaned under a weight of treasure, and were kept in a safe obscurity.
Well might he say, as he did in June to Miot, that the commissioners of the Directory would
soon leave and not be replaced, since they counted for nothing in his policy.

With the entry into Milan, therefore, begins a new epoch in the remarkable development we are
seeking to outline. The military genius of him who had been the Corsican patriot and the Jacobin
republican had finally asserted dominion over all his other qualities. In the inconsistency
of human nature, those former characters now and then showed themselves as still existent,
but they were henceforth subordinate. The conquered Milanese was by a magical touch provided
with a provisional government, ready, after the tardy assent of the Directory, to be changed
into the Transpadane Republic and put under French protection. Every detail of administration,
every official and his functions, came under Bonaparte's direction. He knew the land and its
resources, the people and their capacities, the mutual relations of the surrounding states,
and the idiosyncrasies of their rulers. Such laborious analysis as his despatches display,
such grasp both of outline and detail, such absence of confusion and clearness of vision, such
lack of hesitance and such definition of plan, seem to prove that either a hero or a demon
is again on earth. All the capacity this man had hitherto shown, great as it was, sinks into
insignificance when compared with the Olympian powers he now displays, and will continue to
display for years to come. His sinews are iron, his nerves are steel, his eyes need no sleep,
and his brain no rest. What a captured Hungarian veteran said of him at Lodi is as true of
his political activity as of his military restlessness: "He knows nothing of the regular rules
of war: he is sometimes on our front, sometimes on the flank, sometimes in the rear. There
is no supporting such a gross violation of rules." His senses and his reason were indeed untrammeled
by human limitations; they worked on front, rear, and flank, often simultaneously, and always
without confusion.

Was it astonishing that the French nation, just recovering from a debauch of irreligion and
anarchy, should begin insensibly to yield to the charms of a wooer so seductive? For some time
past the soldiers, as the Milan newspapers declared, had been a pack of tatterdemalions ever
flying before the arms of his Majesty the Emperor; now they were victors, led by a second Cæsar
or Alexander, clothed, fed, and paid at the cost of the conquered. To ardent French republicans,
and to the peoples of Italy, this phenomenal personage proclaimed that he had come to break
the chains of captives, while almost in the same hour he wrote to the Directory that he was
levying twenty million francs on the country, which, though exhausted by five years of war,
was then the richest in the civilized world. Nor was the self-esteem of France and the Parisian
passion for adornment forgotten. There began a course of plunder, if not in a direction at
least in a measure hitherto unknown to the modern world--the plunder of scientific specimens,
of manuscripts, of pictures, statues, and other works of art. It is difficult to fix the responsibility
for this policy, which by the overwhelming majority of learned and intelligent Frenchmen was
considered right, morally and legally. Nothing so flattered the national pride as the assemblage
in Paris of art treasures from all nations, nothing so humiliated it as their dispersion at
the behest of the conquering Allies. In the previous year a few art works had been taken from
Holland and Belgium, and formal orders were given again and again by the Directory for stripping
the Pope's galleries; but there is a persistent belief, founded, no doubt, in an inherent probability,
that the whole comprehensive scheme of art spoliation had been suggested in the first place
by Bonaparte, and prearranged between himself and the executive before his departure. At any
rate, he asked and easily obtained from the government a commission of scholars and experts
to scour the Italian cities; and soon untold treasures of art, letters, and science began to
pour into the galleries, cabinets, and libraries of Paris. A few brave voices among the artists
of the capital protested against the desecration; the nation at large was tipsy with delight,
and would not listen. Raphael, Leonardo, and Michelangelo, Correggio, Giorgione, and Paul Veronese,
with all the lesser masters, were stowed in the holds of frigates and despatched by way of
Toulon toward the new Rome; while Monge and Berthollet ransacked the scientific collections
of Milan and Parma for their rarest specimens. Science, in fact, was to flourish on the banks
of the Seine as never before or elsewhere; and the great investigators of Italy, forgetful
of their native land, were to find a new citizenship in the world of knowledge at the capital
of European liberties. Words like these, addressed to the astronomer Oriani, indicate that
on Bonaparte's mind had dawned the notion of a universal federated state, to which national
republics would be subordinate.

No scene in the history of warfare was more theatrical than the entry of the French into Milan.
The pageant was arranged on the lines of a Roman triumph and the distances so calculated that
Bonaparte was the one impressive figure. With his lean face and sharp Greek profile, his long,
lank, unpowdered locks, his simple uniform, and awkward seat in the saddle, he looked like
a new human type, neither angel nor devil but an inscrutable apparition from another sphere.
To officers and men the voluptuous city extended wide its arms, and the shabby soldiery were
incongruous figures where their entertainers were elegant and fastidious beyond what the guests
had dreamed. With stern impartiality the liberator repressed all excess in his army, but immediately
the question of contributions, billeting, indemnity, and fiscal organization was taken up,
settled, and the necessary measures inaugurated. The rich began to hide their possessions and
the burghers to cry out. Ere long there was opposition, first sullen, then active, especially
in the suburban villages where the French were fiercely attacked. One of these, Binasco, was
burned and sacked as an example to the rest and to the city. Order was restored and the inexorable
process of seizures went on. Pavia bade defiance; the officials were threatened with death,
many leading citizens were taken as hostages, and the place was pillaged for three days. "Such
a lesson would set the people of Italy right." They did not need a second example, it was true,
but the price of "liberation" was fearful.

Italian rebellion having been subdued, the French nation roused to enthusiasm, independent
funds provided, and the Directory put in its place, Bonaparte was free to unfold and consummate
his further plans. If so, fly at once! Your life is in danger--you cannot long escape detection--it
is dangerous to tempt my father. Go! you will find none else here to listen to your denial of
an inimical intent in this reckless deception."

"My object is but half fulfilled!" exclaimed the youth, throwing himself at the Lady Margaret's
feet.

It would argue a poor knowledge of the quick apprehension of woman, to say that the maiden was entirely
unprepared for such a movement; but the suddenness of the demonstration made her start. Gilbert's
embarrassment had disappeared in his fervor. He no longer stammered and stuttered, but with
unhesitating eloquence went through that ancient but ever fresh story, found in the mouths of all
suitors in all ages. Linda stood with her eyes and mouth distended, looking as though she had
been petrified just as she was about to scream. It was rather a poor omen for Gilbert that Margaret
should have turned to the old servant, who had advanced a pace, and
calmly motioned her back to her corner.

The daughter of Stramen listened to Gilbert's passionate professions with the air of one who
was hearing the same vows, from the same person, under similar circumstances for the second time. She
could scarcely have foreseen this, but there is no estimating the power of anticipation it
is the mother of much presence of mind and unpremeditated wit.

After reciting the history of his love from its dawn to its zenith, Gilbert began to conjure her
not to slight his affection, and not to permit family prejudices to stand in the way of their union.

"It
can never be sufficiently lamented," he said, "that the demon of revenge has so long separated
our houses, which ought to be united in the closest ties of friendship. It is time for us to
learn to forgive. We have been too long aliens from God, and wedded to our evil passions. We must
fling aside the scowl of defiance, the angry malediction, the sword and the firebrand, and, like Christians
and neighbors, contract an alliance that may edify as much as our discord has scandalized. I
conjure you, in the name of the victims already made by our feud--of the numbers who must perish
by its continuance--in the name of the holy Church whose precepts we have disregarded, of the God
whose Commandments we have violated, not to dismiss me in scorn and anger. I have perilled
my life, that I might end our enmity in love."

"I am most happy," interposed the Lady Margaret, availing herself of the first pause in his rapid
utterance, "I am most happy," she repeated, in a voice of singular sweetness, "that our enmity
may end in love--"

A smile of exultation shot over Gilbert's face, and a sound of joy
trembled on his lips.

This did not escape the maiden, for she instantly added:

"But not in the love you propose!"

The light was gone from Gilbert's countenance, and he stared wildly into the lovely and mournful face
before him.

"Not in the love you propose," she resumed. Hitherto she had spoken
seriously and without agitation, but now her whole manner was changed.
Her cheek glowed and her eyes gleamed: a sudden animation appeared
in every limb. She took a step forward, and bent over the still kneeling
youth, fixing upon his a steady, penetrating gaze, as though she sought
to read his inmost soul.

"Tell me, Gilbert de Hers," she said, "do
you truly desire peace between us?"

"As I live," replied Gilbert,
"yes!"

"Do you desire it for the love of God, and because our enmity
displeases Him?"

"Yes."

"Then consecrate yourself to the attainment
of that peace! Let no selfish motive spur you on! Look to heaven for
your recompense, not to me I Aspire to eternal favor, not to mortal
love! As for me--my days are numbered here!--but what remains of life,
I devote to the same holy end. We will labor together, though apart,
in a noble cause--our prayers shall be the same--our hopes the same--our
actions guided by the same resolves! If I should die before our task
is done--if my death fail to soften my father's heart--falter not
in your enterprise! Bonaparte was to have moved southward along the shore to revolutionize Genoa, Tuscany,
the Papal States, and Naples successively. The whole idea having been scornfully rejected by
Bonaparte, the Directory had been forced by the brilliant successes of their general not merely
to condone his disobedience, but actually to approve his policy. He now had the opportunity
of justifying his foresight. Understanding, as the government did not, that Austria was their
only redoubtable foe by land, the real bulwark of the whole Italian system, he had first shattered
her power, at least for the time. The prop having been removed, the structure was toppling,
and during this interval of waiting, it fell. His opportunity was made, his resolution ripe.

In front, Venice was at his mercy; behind him, guerrilla bands of so-called Barbets, formed
in Genoese territory and equipped by disaffected fugitives, were threatening the lately conquered
gateway from France where the Ligurian Alps and the Apennines meet. Bonaparte's first step
was to impose a new arrangement upon the submissive Piedmont, whereby, to make assurance doubly
sure, Alessandria was added to the list of fortresses in French hands; then, as his second
measure, Murat and Lannes appeared before Genoa at the head of an armed force, with instructions
first to seize and shoot the many offenders who had taken refuge in her territory after the
risings in Lombardy, and then to threaten the Senate with further retaliatory measures, and
command the instant dismissal of the imperial Austrian plenipotentiary. From Paris came orders
to drive the English fleet out of the harbor of Leghorn, where, in spite of the treaty between
Tuscany and France, there still were hostile arsenals and ships. It was done. Naples did not
wait to see her territories invaded, but sued for mercy and was humbled, being forced to withdraw
her navy from that of the coalition, and her cavalry from the Austrian army. For the moment
the city of Rome was left in peace. The strength of papal dominion lay in Bologna, and the
other legations beyond the Apennines, comprising many of the finest districts in Italy; and
there a master-stroke was to be made.

On the throne of Modena was an Austrian archduke: his government was remorselessly shattered
and virtually destroyed, the ransom being fixed at the ruinous sum of ten million francs with
twenty of the best pictures in the principality. But on that of Parma was a Spanish prince
with whose house France had made one treaty and hoped to make a much better one. The duke,
therefore, was graciously allowed to purchase an armistice by an enormous but yet possible
contribution of two million francs in money, together with provisions and horses in quantity.
The famous St. Jerome of Correggio was among the twenty paintings seized in Modena. The archduke
repeatedly offered to ransom it for one million francs, the amount at which its value was estimated,
but his request was not granted. Next came Bologna and its surrounding territory. Such had
been the tyranny of ecclesiastical control that the subjects of the Pope in that most ancient
and famous seat of learning welcomed the French with unfeigned joy; and the fairest portion
of the Papal States passed by its own desire from under the old yoke. The successor of St.
Peter was glad to ransom his capital by a payment nominally of twenty-one million francs. In
reality he had to surrender far more; for his galleries, like those of Modena, were stripped
of their gems, while the funds seized in government offices, and levied in irregular ways,
raised the total value forwarded to Paris to nearly double the nominal contribution. All this,
Bonaparte explained, was but a beginning, the idleness of summer heats. "This armistice," he
wrote to Paris on June twenty-first, 1796, "being concluded with the dog-star rather than with
the papal army, my opinion is that you should be in no haste to make peace, so that in September,
if all goes well in Germany and northern Italy, we can take possession of Rome."

In fact, this ingenious man was really practising moderation, as both he and the terrified
Italians, considering their relative situations, understood it. Whatever had been the original
arrangement with the directors, there was nothing they did not now expect and demand from Italy;
they wrote requiring, in addition to all that had hitherto been mentioned, plunder of every
kind from Leghorn; masts, cordage, and ship supplies from Genoa; horses, provisions, and forage
from Milan; and contributions of jewels and precious stones from the reigning princes. As for
the papal power, the French radicals would gladly have destroyed it. They had not forgotten
that Basseville, a diplomatic agent of the republic, had been killed in the streets of Rome,
and that no reparation had been made either by the punishment of the assassin or otherwise.
The Pope, they declared, had been the real author of the terrible civil war fomented by the
unyielding clergy, and waged with such fury in France. Moreover, the whole sentimental and
philosophical movement of the century in France and elsewhere considered the ecclesiastical
centralization and hierarchical tyranny of the papacy as a dangerous survival of absolutism. 

They had slept and kept watch together. Reminiscences of hair-breadth escapes and of mutual
services had created friendships of no ordinary strength. For many days the different troops
could be seen evacuating the city under their feudal chiefs, until at last scarce a soldier
remained at Merseburg.

It was about the first of November that the barons of Hers and Stramen set out with the relics
of their clans for their lordships in Suabia. The face of Sandrit of Stramen was sterner than
ever, and his son seemed to have caught a portion of his severity. They rode along swiftly,
and whenever they spoke it was about the Lady Margaret. Father Omehr alone preserved his equanimity,
and even he was now unusually absent and thoughtful. Nor was the retinue of Albert of Hers more
cheerful. Sir Albert's eyes were fixed on the ground in deep dejection; tears were ever and anon
springing into Humbert's eyes, and even the vassals behind them were gloomy and dispirited.
They were returning to a desolated home, it is true; but, what was worse, they were returning without
Gilbert.

The Lady Margaret was still at Tübingen.

With scarce more fervor did Gregory VII uphold against the world the measures he deemed essential
to the liberty, unity, and purity of the Church, than did this young girl pursue the object
to which she had consecrated herself--the extinction of the feud. Humble as were her aim and efforts,
when contrasted with the objects and exertions of the sainted Pontiff, she could still imitate his
piety and perseverance. The reader may have remarked the changes in the Lady Margaret's character.
She was naturally haughty and impetuous, though generous and sincere. In spite of her piety,
that pride, so difficult to curb, would still break out. But these infirmities had been zealously
combated, until religion had triumphed over the weakness of humanity. Still, for some time, the
Lady Margaret was unhappy, and accused herself of human love in seeking
the reconciliation, imputing the revolution in her feelings to a culpable
tenderness.

But she soon discovered that vanity--that an aspiration after the
consciousness of perfection rather than true piety--occasioned her
uneasiness.

She no longer tormented herself with dangerous mistrusts, but gave
all she had to God, begging Him to purify the gift and supply her
mind with the dispositions to render the offering acceptable.

     She had learned that most difficult lesson even to the holy--to
     hope rather than despond in the conviction of unworthiness.
     

[Sidenote: 1796.]

Meantime the end of July had come. The Emperor Francis had decided. At the risk of defeat on
the Rhine he must retain his Italian possessions and prestige. He was still the Roman emperor,
inheritor of an immemorial dignity, overlord of the fairest lands in the peninsula. Wurmser,
considered by Austria her greatest general, had therefore been recalled to Vienna from the
west, and sent at the head of twenty-five thousand fresh troops to collect the columns of Beaulieu's
army, which was scattered in the Tyrol. This done, he was to assume the chief command, and
advance to the relief of Mantua. The first part of his task was successfully completed, and
already, according to the direction of the Aulic Council of the empire, and in pursuance of
the same hitherto universal but vicious system of cabinet campaigning which Bonaparte had just
repudiated, he was moving down from the Alps in three columns with a total force of about forty-seven
thousand men. There were about fifteen thousand in the garrison of Mantua. Bonaparte was much
weaker, having only forty-two thousand, and of these some eight thousand were occupied in the
siege of that place. Wurmser was a master of the old school, working like an automaton under
the hand of his government, and commanding according to well-worn precept his well-equipped
battalions, every soldier of which was a recruit so costly that destructive battles were made
as infrequent as possible, because to fight many meant financial ruin. In consequence, like
all the best generals of his class, he made war as far as possible a series of manoeuvers.
Opposed to him was an emancipated genius with neither directors nor public council to hamper
him. In the tradition of the Revolution, as in the mind of Frederick the Great, war was no
game, but a bloody decision, and the quicker the conclusion was tried the better. The national
conscription, under the hands of Dubois de Crancé, had secured men in unlimited numbers at
the least expense; while Carnot's organization had made possible the quick handling of troops
in large mass by simplifying the machinery. Bonaparte was about to show what could be done
in the way of using the weapon which had been put into his hands.

The possession of Mantua was decisive of Italian destiny, for its holder could command a kind
of overlordship in every little Italian state. If Bonaparte should take and keep it, Austria
would be virtually banished from Italy, and her prestige destroyed. She must, therefore, relieve
it, or lose not only her power in the peninsula, but her rank in Europe. To this end, and according
to the established rules of strategy, the Austrians advanced from the mountains in three divisions
against the French line, which stretched from Brescia past Peschiera, at the head of the Mincio,
and through Verona to Legnago on the Adige. Two of these armies were to march respectively
down the east and west banks of Lake Garda, and, flanking the inferior forces of the French
on both sides, surround and capture them. The other division was on the Adige in front of Verona,
ready to relieve Mantua. Between that river and the lake rises the stately mass of Monte Baldo,
abrupt on its eastern, more gentle on its western slope. This latter, as affording some space
for manoeuvers, was really the key to the passage. Such was the first onset of the Austrians
down this line that the French outposts at Lonato and Rivoli were driven in, and for a time
it seemed as if there would be a general rout. But the French stood firm, and checked any further
advance. For a day Bonaparte and Wurmser stood confronting each other. In the mean time, however,
the left Austrian column was pouring down toward Verona, while the right, under Quasdanowich,
had already captured Brescia, seized the highway to Milan, and cut off the French retreat.
This move in Wurmser's plan was so far entirely successful, and for a moment it seemed as if
the sequel would be equally so. The situation of his opponents was desperate.

In this crisis occurred the first of those curious scenes which recur at intervals in Bonaparte's
life. Some, and those eye-witnesses, have attributed them to genuine panic. His first measure
was to despatch flying adjutants, ten in number, to concentrate his scattered forces at the
critical point, south of Lake Garda. His genius decided that victory on the field was far more
fruitful than the holding in check of a garrison. Accordingly he ordered Sérurier to raise
the siege of Mantua, and his siege-guns to be spiked and withdrawn. The division thus rendered
available he at once despatched for field operations toward Brescia. But its numbers were so
few as scarcely to relieve the situation. Accordingly a council of war was summoned to decide
whether the army should stand and fight, or retreat for further concentration. The commander-in-chief
was apparently much excited, and according to Augereau's account advised the latter course.
The enemy being between the French and the Adda, no other line was open but that southward
through the low country, over the Po; and to follow that implied something akin to a disorderly
rout. For instance, she made no comment on the fact that he had hardly touched his bacon; she
merely removed his plate and gave him marmalade and toast as if he had left no bacon at all.
She didn't even notice the lines of suffering on his face, the dark circles under his eyes.
He cast a glance in the mirror when her back was turned to see if they were obvious. They were. Why
wasn't Mary catching his hump? She always did.

When finally he left the house, a little bent, with no spring in his step, Mary didn't accompany him
to the door. She didn't exchange with him one of those rapid looks of complete understanding
that he had grown so accustomed to and found so sustaining and helpful. She kissed him firmly
and coolly, almost casually. The hazardous enterprise succeeded, and on the very plan already adopted. Augereau
gave the orders, and with swift concentration every available man was hurled against the Austrian
column under Quasdanowich at Lonato. This much may be true; casting aside Augereau's inconsistencies
and braggadocio, it is possible but unlikely.

