 CHAPTER XII

THE USE AND ABUSE OF LEADERS, LETTERS AND OTHER INSERTS

A full reel
contains approximately one thousand feet of film.

The ordinary five-reel feature is therefore somewhat less than five
thousand feet in length.

 133

[Serial I]

July 5, 1960.--Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union and
ordered to be printed

UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

58231° WASHINGTON: 1960

COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND ASTRONAUTICS

  OVERTON BROOKS, Louisiana, Chairman

  John W. McCormack, Massachusetts
  George P. Miller, California
  Olin E. Teague, Texas
  Victor L. Anfuso, New York
  B. F. Sisk, California
  Erwin Mitchell, Georgia
  James M. Quigley, Pennsylvania
  Leonard G. Wolf, Iowa
  Joseph E. Karth, Minnesota
  Ken Hechler, West Virginia
  Emilio Q. Daddario, Connecticut
  Walter H. Moeller, Ohio
  David S. King, Utah
  J. Edward Roush, Indiana
  Thomas G. Morris, New Mexico
  Joseph W. Martin, JR. Massachusetts
  James G. Fulton, Pennsylvania
  Gordon L. McDonough, California
  J. Edgar Chenoweth, Colorado
  Frank C. Osmers, JR. New Jersey
  William K. Van Pelt, Wisconsin
  A. D. Baumhart, JR. Ohio
  Perkins Bass, New Hampshire
  R. Walter Riehlman, New York

  CHARLES F. DUCANDER, Executive Director and Chief Counsel
  DR. CHARLES S. SHELDON II, Technical Director
  SPENCER M. BERESFORD, Special Counsel
  PHILIP B. YEAGER, Special Consultant
  JOHN A. CARSTARPHEN, Jr., Chief Clerk
  FRANK R. HAMMILL, Jr., Counsel
  RAYMOND WILCOVE, Staff Consultant
  RICHARD P. HINES, Staff Consultant
  Lt. Col. FRANCIS J. DILLON, Jr., Staff Consultant
  Comdr. HOWARD J. SILBERSTEIN, Staff Consultant

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

  HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
  COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND ASTRONAUTICS,
  Washington, D.C., July 1, 1960.

  Hon. OVERTON BROOKS,
  Chairman, Committee on Science and Astronautics.

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am forwarding herewith for your consideration a staff study, "The Practical
Values of Space Exploration."

This study was undertaken pursuant to your request for information covering the various utilities
of the national space effort. The study has been prepared by Philip B. Yeager and reviewed
by other members of the professional staff.

  CHARLES F. DUCANDER,
  Executive Director and Chief Counsel.

LETTER OF SUBMITTAL

  HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
  COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND ASTRONAUTICS,
  Washington, D.C., July 5, 1960.

  Hon. SAM RAYBURN,
  Speaker of the House of Representatives,
  Washington, D.C.

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: By direction of the Committee on Science and Astronautics, I submit the following
report on "The Practical Values of Space Exploration" for the consideration of the 86th Congress.

  OVERTON BROOKS, Chairman.

  CONTENTS

  Introduction                                                         1

  I. The unseen values                                                 3
    Some examples of the unexpected                                    3
    The ultimate values                                                5
    Steering a middle road                                             6
    The time for space                                                 7

  II. National security values                                         9
    The military uses                                                  9
    Our position in the international community                       12
    Space as a substitute for war                                     15

  III. The economic values                                            17
    U.S. expenditures on space                                        17
    The spread of economic benefits                                   18
    Creation of new industries                                        19
      Research                                                        19
      New power sources                                               20
      New water sources and uses                                      21
      Noise and human engineering                                     22
      High speed-light weight computers                               22
      Solid state physics                                             23
    Economic alliances                                                24
    Private enterprise in space                                       24
    Jobs                                                              27
    Automation and disarmament                                        28

  IV. 133]                                    |
|                                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+

THE PRACTICAL VALUES OF SPACE EXPLORATION

INTRODUCTION

This report has been undertaken for a special reason. It is to explain to the taxpayer just
why so many of his dollars are going into the American effort to explore space, and to indicate
what he can expect in return which is of value to him.

Such an explanation, even after 2 years of relatively high-geared activity in the space exploration
field, appears to be warranted. There is still a segment of the U.S. population which has little,
if any, notion of the values that the space program has for the average citizen. To these people
the expenditure of billions of dollars on missiles, rockets, satellites, Moon probes, and other
space activities remains something of a mystery--particularly when so many other worthy projects
throughout the land may be slowed or stalled for lack of funds.

If, therefore, the practical value of the American space program is being questioned, it is
a question which needs to be answered.

It is interesting to note that the problem is not unique to the United States. In the Soviet
Union, which counts itself as the world's prime investigator of space, there is likewise an
element of citizenry which finds itself puzzled over the U.S.S.R.'s penchant for the interplanetary
reaches.

"What do sputniks give to a person like me?" a Russian workman complained in a letter which
Pravda published on its front page. "So much money is spent on sputniks it makes people gasp.
If there were no sputniks the Government could cut the cost of cloth for an overcoat in half
and put a few electric flatirons in the stores. Rockets, rockets, rockets. Who needs them now?"[1]

It goes without saying that the workman was severely chastised by the Soviet newspaper, but
his point was made.

No matter where taxpayers live they want to know--and are entitled to know--what good a program
of space exploration is to them.

During the 1960's it is expected that the U.S. Government will spend anywhere from $30 to $50
billion on space exploration for all purposes, civilian and military. It is the intent of this
report to delineate in lay language, and in terms which will be meaningful to those who have
not followed the American space program closely, the reasons for this great investment and
the probable returns.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Associated Press dispatch, dateline Moscow, June 12, 1960.

I. The Unseen Values

The United States has not embarked upon its formidable program of space exploration in order
to make or perpetuate a gigantic astronautic boondoggle. There are good reasons, hard reasons
for this program. But, in essence, they all boil down to the fact that the program is expected
to produce a number of highly valuable payoffs. It not only is expected to do so, it is doing
so right now.

Many of the beneficial results can be identified.

Those already showing up are detailed in the sections of this report which follow. They include
the most urgent and precious of all commodities--national security. Beyond that, they also
include a strengthened national economy, new jobs and job categories, better living, fresh
consumer goods, improved education, increased health, stimulated business enterprise and a
host of long-range values which may ultimately make the immediate benefits pale into relative
insignificance.

Practical uses such as those just listed mean the taxpayer is more than getting his money's
worth from American space exploration--and getting a sizable chunk of it today.

Nevertheless, if we can depend on the history of scientific adventure and progress, on its
consistent tendencies of the past, then we can be reasonably sure that the greatest, finest
benefits to come from our ventures into space are yet unseen.

These are the unpredictable values, the ones which none of us has yet thought of.

Inevitably they lag behind the basic research discoveries needed to make them possible, and
often the discoveries are slow to be put to work after they are made. Investors, even governments,
are human, and before they invest in something they normally want to know: What good is it?

We can be sure that many American taxpayers of the future will be asking "what good is it?"
in regard to various phases of the space program.

There was an occasion when the great Scottish physicist, James Clerk Maxwell, was asked this
question concerning one of his classic discoveries in electromagnetism. Maxwell replied: "What
good is a baby?"

Now, as then, it takes time for new knowledge to develop and become useful after its conception
and birth.

SOME EXAMPLES OF THE UNEXPECTED

A graphic illustration of "unseen" benefits in regard to atomic energy has been expressed by
an experienced researcher in this way:

     I remember a conversation I had with one of our nuclear scientists
     when I was a member of the Weapons Systems Evaluations Group almost
     10 years ago. We were talking about the possible peaceful
     applications of fission. We really could think of little that
     could be done with it other than making fissionable material into a
     form of destructive power. There had been some discussion about
     harnessing the power of fission, but this seemed to us to be quite
     remote. It seemed difficult to conceive of the atomic bomb as
     anything but sheer power used for destructive purposes. Yet today
     the products of fission applied to peaceful uses are many. The use
     of isotopes in industry, medicine, agriculture are well known. Food
     irradiation, nuclear power reactors, now reactors for shipboard
     use, are with us, and it is hardly the beginning. The plants in the
     three rows were exactly of the same age and had been subjected
     to closely similar conditions, so that any difference in
     their fertility must be attributed to their different origin; namely,
to the one lot being derived from plants self-fertilised for four
generations and then crossed with a fresh stock; to the second lot
being derived from plants of the same old stock intercrossed for five
generations; and to the third lot being derived from plants self-fertilised
for five generations.


The things we learn from our national space program will produce benefits in ways entirely
unrelated to missiles or interplanetary travel. (See secs. III and IV.) The reverse is also
true; knowledge gained in areas quite remote from outer space can have genuine value for the
advance of space exploration.

Investigation into the skin of a fish provides a good case in point.

A German inventor who migrated to California after World War II had long been interested in
ways to reduce the drag of friction produced by air or water on the surface of objects passing
through them. One day, while watching a group of porpoises cavort past a speeding ship with
the greatest of ease, it occurred to him that the skin of these animals, if closely studied,
might shed light on ways of cutting surface friction. It was many years before the inventor
was able to enlist the aid of aquarium managers in securing porpoise skins for study. In 1955,
however, he obtained the necessary skins and found that dolphins, in fact, owe much of their
great speed to a unique skin which markedly reduces the effect of turbulence against it. From
this knowledge has come the recent development of a diaphragm-damping fluid surface which has
real potential not only for underwater high-speed bodies, such as submarines, torpedoes and
underwater missiles, but for any vehicle where fast-moving gases or fluids may cause drag.[3]

The implications of this knowledge for satellites near Earth or for reentering spacecraft are
obvious.

Sometimes a reverse twist in reasoning by a speculative mind will result in enormous practical
utility.

In Cambridge, Mass., a sanitary engineer teaching at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
began to wonder about the principles of adhesion--why things stick to each other. Do they only
stick together because some sticky substance is holding them, or are there other reasons? "If
a person is sick," he asked himself, "is it because a cause of sickness is present or because
a cause of health is absent? We now know that in infectious diseases the first alternative
is true; the patient is ill because he harbors pathogenic germs. The opposite case prevails
in deficiency diseases, where necessary vitamins are absent from food and illness is brought
about by this absence. To which of the classes does adhesion belong? When we cannot produce
a dependable bond, are we dealing with the lack of some adhesive force or with existence of
an obstacle to sticking?"

Operating on the theory that adhesion might result not only from the presence of a sticky agent
but from the removal of all impediments to sticking, this scientist has now managed to produce
strong adhesion between the least sticky of substances--polyethylene plastics. He has done
it by studying the molecular structure of polyethylenes and removing all impurities which normally
find their way into the manufacture of such material. The next step: "We hope to prepare adhesive
joints in which a noble gas acts as an adhesive. Noble gases are the least active substances
known to chemistry; if they can adhere, it is clear that no specific forces are needed for
adhesiveness."[4]

No great imagination is required to perceive the meaning which this new knowledge, if proved
out, will have for our everyday lives--to say nothing of its usefulness in the making of astronautic
equipment.

THE ULTIMATE VALUES

In any event, it is apparent that where research is concerned--and especially space research
with its broad scale of inquiry--we cannot always see the value of scientific endeavor on the
basis of its beginning. We cannot always account for what we have purchased with each research
dollar.

The Government stated this proposition when it first undertook to put the space program on
a priority basis:

     Scientific research has never been amenable to rigorous cost
     accounting in advance. Nor, for that matter, has exploration of any
     sort. But if we have learned one lesson, it is that research and
     exploration have a remarkable way of paying off--quite apart from
     the fact that they demonstrate that man is alive and insatiably
     curious. And we all feel richer for knowing what explorers and
     scientists have learned about the universe in which we live.[5]

In this statement there is political support for what the historian, the anthropologist, the
psychologist consider to be established fact--that some innate force in the human being makes
him know, whatever his formal beliefs or whatever his unconscious philosophy, that he must
progress. Progress is the core of his destiny.

This is a concept which, in connection with space exploration, has been recognized for many
years. One of the earliest and most perceptive of the space "buffs" stated it before the British
Interplanetary Society in 1946 in these words: "* * * our civilization is no more than the
sum of all the dreams that earlier ages have brought to fulfillment. And so it must always
be, for if men cease to dream, if they turn their backs upon the wonder of the universe, the
story of our race will be coming to an end".[6]

STEERING A MIDDLE ROAD

In any endeavor which is as futuristic as space exploration it is not difficult to become lost
in the land of the starry-eyed prognosticators. Conversely, it is also easy to find oneself
lining up with the debunkers and the champions of the status quo, for their arguments and views
give the impression of being hard-headed, sensible.

If one must err in either direction, however, it is probably safer, where space is concerned,
to err in the direction of the enthusiasts. This is because (and subsequent parts of this report
will show it) the Nation cannot afford not to be in the vanguard of the space explorers.

Events today move with facility and lightning rapidity. Today, more than ever, time is on the
side of the expeditious. We can no longer take the risk of giving much support to the scoffers--to
that breed of unimaginative souls who thought Robert Fulton was a fool for harnessing a paddlewheel
to a boiler, who thought Henry Ford was a fool for putting an internal combustion engine on
wheels, who thought Samuel Langley was a fool for designing a contraption to fly through the air.

There are always those who will say it cannot be done. Even in this era of sophisticated flight
there have been those who said the sound barrier would never be broken. It was. Others said
later that space vehicles would never get through the heat barrier. They have. Now, some say
men will never overcome the radiation barrier in space. But we can be sure they will.

It is undoubtedly wise for the layman, in terms of the benefits he can expect from the space
program in the foreseeable future, to steer a reasonable course between the two extremes. Yet
one cannot help remembering that the secret of taking practical energy from the atom, a secret
which the human race had been trying to learn for thousands of years, was accomplished in less
than a decade from the moment when men first determined that it was possible to split an atom.
It is difficult to forget that even after World War II some of our most respected scientists
sold short the idea of developing long-range missiles. Impractical, they said; visionary. But
6 years after the United States went to work seriously on missiles, an operational ICBM with
a 9,000-mile range was an accomplished fact.

THE TIME FOR SPACE

All of the glowing predictions being made on behalf of space exploration will not be here tomorrow
or the next day. Yet this seems less important than that we recognize the significance of our
moment of history.

We may think of that moment as a new age--the age of space and the atom--to follow the historic
ages of stone, bronze, and iron. We may think of it in terms of theories, of succeeding from
those of Copernicus to those of Newton and thence to Freud and now Einstein. We may think of
our time as the time of exploiting the new fourth state of matter: plasma, or the ion. Or we
may think of it in terms of revolutions, as passing from the industrial cycle of steam through
the railroad-steel cycle, through the electricity-automobile cycle, into the burgeoning technological
revolution of today.

However we think of it, it is a dawning period and one which--in its scope and potential--promises
to dwarf much of what has gone before. Those who have given careful thought to the matter are
convinced that while some caution is in order, the new era is not one to be approached with
timidity, inhibited imagination or too much convention. Neither is there any point in trying
to hold off the tempo of this oncoming age or, in any other way, to evade it.

Mark Twain once listened to the complaints of an old riverboat pilot who was having trouble
making the switch from sail to steam. The old pilot wanted no part of the newfangled steam
contraptions. "Maybe so," replied Twain, "but when it's steamboat time, you steam."[7]

Today is space time and man is going to explore it.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Gavin, Lt. Gen. James M., U.S. Army (retired), speech to the American Rocket Society, New
York City, Nov. 19, 1958.

[3] Kramer, Max O., "The Dolphins' Secret," New Scientist, May 5, 1960, pp. 1118-1120.

[4] Bikerman, Dr. Jacob J., reported in New Scientist, Mar. 3, 1960, p. 535.

[5] "Introduction to Outer Space," a statement by the President, the White House, Mar. 26, 1958.

[6] Clarke, Arthur C., "The Challenge of the Spaceships," Harper & Bros., New York, 1955, p. 15.

[7] Related by T. Keith Glennan, Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
in an address before the Worcester (Mass.) Economic Club, Feb. 15, 1960.

II. NATIONAL SECURITY VALUES

There is no longer doubt that space exploration holds genuine significance for the security
and well-being of the United States as a nation.

It does so in at least three ways. One results from the uses which our Armed Forces can make
of the knowledge gained from space exploration. A second results from the influence and prestige
which America can exert within the world community because of her prowess in space exploration.
A third results from the possibility that space exploration, eventually, may prove so immense
and important a challenge that it will channel the prime energies of powerful nations toward
its own end and thus reduce the current emphasis on developing means of destruction.

The first two values definitely exist. The third seems to be a reasonable hope.

THE MILITARY USES

From the beginning it has been recognized that space exploration, the research connected therewith,
and the ability to operate therein is of more than passing interest to the military.

Congress recognized the fact when it passed the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958
and directed that "activities peculiar to or primarily associated with the development of weapons
systems, military operations, or the defense of the United States * * * shall be the responsibility
of, and shall be directed by, the Department of Defense."[8] In the amendments to the Space
Act proposed in 1960, this directive was strengthened: "The Department of Defense shall undertake
such activities in space, and such research and development connected therewith, as may be
necessary for the defense of the United States."[9]

It is possible to argue, and indeed it has been argued, that ballistic missiles such as IRBM's
and ICBM's are not really "space" weapons, that they are simply an extension of the traditional
art of artillery. For the purposes of this report, however, the argument appears to be largely
a semantic one. Such missiles do traverse space, they are guided through space, and they employ
the same engines and principles which are presently used for purposes of scientific space exploration.
While more advanced "space" weapons may evolve in the future, the missile as we know it today
cannot very well be divorced from our thinking about space and its practical uses.

Going on this assumption, and casting an eye in the direction of the Iron Curtain, it is obvious
that the Soviet Union is going all-out to exploit space for military purposes.

Military men have known for years that the tremendously powerful booster which the Soviets
have been using to launch their massive sputniks was originally designed to carry the primitive
heavy version of the A-bomb across continents.

