§ 21. After having corrected the Pronunciation, let him take Care that the Words be uttered
in such a Manner, without any Affectation that they be distinctly understood, and no one Syllable
be lost; for if they are not distinguished, the Singer deprives the Hearer of the greatest
Part of that Delight which vocal Musick conveys by Means of the Words. For, if the Words are
not heard so as to be understood, there will be no great Difference between a human Voice and
a Hautboy. This Defect, tho' one of the greatest, is now-a-days more than common, to the greatest
Disgrace of the Professors and the Profession; and yet they ought to know, that the Words only
give the Preference to a Singer above an instrumental Performer, admitting them to be of equal
Judgment and Knowledge. Let the modern Master learn to make use of this Advice, for never was
it more necessary than at present.

§ 23. Let him exercise the Scholar to be very ready in joining the Syllables to the Notes,
that he may never be at a Loss in doing it.

§ 24. Let him forbid the Scholar to take Breath in the Middle of a Word, because the dividing
it in two is an Error against Nature; which must not be followed, if we would avoid being laugh'd
at. In interrupted Movements, or in long Divisions, it is not so rigorously required, when
the one or the other cannot be sung in one Breath. Anciently such Cautions were not necessary,
but for the Learners of the first Rudiments; now the Abuse, having taken its Rise in the modern
Schools, gathers Strength, and is grown familiar with those who pretend to Eminence. The Master
may correct this Fault, in teaching the Scholar to manage his Respiration, that he may always
be provided with more Breath than is needful; and may avoid undertaking what, for want of it,
he cannot go through with.

§ 25. Let him shew, in all sorts of Compositions, the proper Place where to take Breath, and
without Fatigue; because there are Singers who give Pain to the Hearer, as if they had an Asthma
taking Breath every Moment with Difficulty, as if they were breathing their last.

§ 26. Let the Master create some Emulation in a Scholar that is negligent, inciting him to
study the Lesson of his Companion, which sometimes goes beyond Genius; because, if instead
of one Lesson he hears two, and the Competition does not discountenance him, he may perhaps
come to learn his Companion's Lesson first, and then his own.

§ 27. Let him never suffer the Scholar to hold the Musick-Paper, in Singing, before his Face,
both that the Sound of the Voice may not be obstructed, and to prevent him from being bashful.

§ 28. Let him accustom the Scholar to sing often in presence of Persons of Distinction, whether
from Birth, Quality, or Eminence in the Profession, that by gradually losing his Fear, he may
acquire an Assurance, but not a Boldness. Assurance leads to a Fortune, and in a Singer becomes
a Merit. On the contrary, the Fearful is most unhappy; labouring under the Difficulty of fetching
Breath, the Voice is always trembling, and obliged to lose Time at every Note for fear of being
choaked; He gives us Pain, in not being able to shew his Ability in publick; disgusts the Hearer,
and ruins the Compositions in such a Manner, that they are not known to be what they are. A
timorous Singer is unhappy, like a Prodigal, who is miserably poor.

§ 29. Let not the Master neglect to shew him, how great their Error is who make Shakes or Divisions,
or take Breath on the syncopated or binding Notes; and how much better Effect the holding out
the Voice has. The Compositions, instead of losing, acquire thereby greater Beauty.[45]

§ 30. Let the Master instruct him in the Forte and Piano, but so as to use him more to the
first than the second, it being easier to make one sing soft than loud. Experience shews that
the Piano is not to be trusted to, since it is prejudicial though pleasing; and if any one
has a Mind to lose his Voice, let him try it. On this Subject some are of Opinion, that there
is an artificial Piano, that can make itself be heard as much as the Forte; but that is only
Opinion, which is the Mother of all Errors. It is not Art which is the Cause that the Piano
of a good Singer is heard, but the profound Silence and Attention of the Audience. For a Proof
of this, let any indifferent Singer be silent on the Stage for a Quarter of a Minute when he
should sing, the Audience, curious to know the Reason of this unexpected Pause, are hush'd
in such a Manner, that if in that Instant he utter one Word with a soft Voice, it would be
heard even by those at the greatest Distance.

§ 31. Let the Master remember, that whosoever does not sing to the utmost Rigour of Time, deserves
not the Esteem of the Judicious; therefore let him take Care, there be no Alteration or Diminution
in it, if he pretends to teach well, and to make an excellent Scholar.

§ 32. Though in certain Schools, Books of Church-Musick and of Madrigals lie buried in Dust,
a good Master would wipe it off; for they are the most effectual Means to make a Scholar ready
and sure. If Singing was not for the most part performed by Memory, as is customary in these
Days, I doubt whether certain Professors could deserve the Name of Singers of the first Rank.[46]

§ 33. Let him encourage the Scholar if he improves; let him mortify him, without Beating, for
Indolence; let him be more rigorous for Negligences; nor let the Scholar ever end a Lesson
without having profited something.

§ 34. An Hour of Application in a Day is not sufficient, even for one of the quickest Apprehension;
the Master therefore should consider how much more Time is necessary for one that has not the
same Quickness, and how much he is obliged to consult the Capacity of his Scholar. From a mercenary
Teacher this necessary Regard is not to be hoped for; expected by other Scholars, tired with
the Fatigue, and solicited by his Necessities, he thinks the Month long; looks on his Watch,
and goes away. If he be but poorly paid for his Teaching,--a God-b'wy to him.

CHAP. V.

Of Recitative.

Recitative is of three Kinds, and ought to be taught in three different Manners.

§ 2. "Holding up one finger," I say, "is a favourite way of bespeaking special attention to some
'point' which you are trying to make; and waving the right hand, with outstretched arm, the forefinger
leading, is an easy and not ungraceful method of illustrating the narrative portion of your
speech. For the more vehement passages, a sudden flourish of the hand upwards, over your head,
generally accompanies some aggressive, triumphant assertion, such
as, 'I care not who he may be!' And a similar movement downwards,
with both hands, would indicate some indignant complaint, such as,
'And never, from that day to this, have they fulfilled their promise.'"

"Excellent!"

cried LEVESON-GOWER, who, as I spoke, involuntarily waved the right hand, the forefinger leading.
 The last, according to the Opinion of the most Judicious, touches the Heart more than
the others, and is called Recitativo di Camera. This requires a more peculiar Skill, by reason
of the Words, which being, for the most part, adapted to move the most violent Passions of
the Soul, oblige the Master to give the Scholar such a lively Impression of them, that he may
seem to be affected with them himself. The Scholar having finished his Studies, it will be
but too[47] easily discovered if he stands in Need of this Lesson. The vast Delight, which
the Judicious feel, is owing to this particular Excellence, which, without the Help of the
usual Ornaments, produces all this Pleasure from itself; and, let Truth prevail, where Passion
speaks, all Shakes, all Divisions and Graces ought to be silent, leaving it to the sole Force
of a beautiful Expression to persuade.

§ 5. The Church Recitative yields more Liberty to the Singer than the other two, particularly
in the final Cadence; provided he makes the Advantage of it that a Singer should do, and not
as a Player on the Violin.

§ 6. The Theatrical leaves it not in our Election to make Use of this Art, lest we offend in
the Narrative, which ought to be natural, unless in a Soliloquy, where it may be in the Stile
of Chamber-Musick.

§ 7. The third abstains from great part of the Solemnity of the first, and contents itself
with more of the second.

§ 8. The Defects and unsufferable Abuses which are heard in Recitatives, and not known to those
who commit them, are innumerable. I will take Notice of several Theatrical ones, that the Master
may correct them.

§ 9. There are some who sing Recitative on the Stage like That of the Church or Chamber; some
in a perpetual Chanting, which is insufferable; some over-do it and make it a Barking; some
whisper it, and some sing it confusedly; some force out the last Syllable, and some sink it;
some sing it blust'ring, and some as if they were thinking of something else; some in a languishing
Manner; others in a Hurry; some sing it through the Teeth, and others with Affectation; some
do not pronounce the Words, and others do not express them; some sing as if laughing, and some
crying; some speak it, and some hiss it; some hallow, bellow, and sing it out of Tune; and,
together with their Offences against Nature, are guilty of the greatest Fault, in thinking
themselves above Correction.

§ 10. The modern Masters run over with Negligence their Instructions in all Sorts of Recitatives,
because in these Days the Study of Expression is looked upon as unnecessary, or despised as
ancient: And yet they must needs see every Day, that besides the indispensable Necessity of
knowing how to sing them, These even teach how to act. If they will not believe it, let them
observe, without flattering themselves, if among their Pupils they can show an Actor of equal
Merit with Cortona in the Tender;[48] of Baron Balarini in the Imperious; or other famous Actors
that at present appear, tho' I name them not; having determined in these Observations, not
to mention any that are living, in whatsoever Degree of Perfection they be, though I esteem
them as they deserve.

§ 11. A Master, that disregards Recitative, probably does not understand the Words, and then,
how can he ever instruct a Scholar in Expression, which is the Soul of vocal Performance, and
without which it is impossible to sing well? Poor Gentlemen Masters who direct and instruct
Beginners, without reflecting on the utter Destruction you bring on the Science, in undermining
the principal Foundations of it! If you know not that the Recitatives, especially in the vulgar
or known Language, require those Instructions relative to the Force of the Words, I would advise
you to renounce the Name, and Office of Masters, to those who can maintain them; your Scholars
will otherwise be made a Sacrifice to Ignorance, and not knowing how to distinguish the Lively
from the Pathetick, or the Vehement from the Tender, it will be no wonder if you see them stupid
on the Stage, and senseless in a Chamber. To speak my Mind freely, yours and their Faults are
unpardonable; it is insufferable to be any longer tormented in the Theatres with Recitatives,
sung in the Stile of a Choir of Capuchin Friars.

§ 12. The reason, however, of not giving more expression to the Recitative, in the manner of
those called Antients, does not always proceed from the Incapacity of the Master, or the Negligence
of the Singer, but from the little Knowledge of the modern Composers (we must except some of
Merit) who set it in so unnatural a Taste, that it is not to be taught, acted or sung. In Justification
of the Master and the Singer let Reason decide. To blame the Composer, the same Reason forbids
me entering into a Matter too high for my low Understanding, and wisely bids me consider the
little Insight I can boast of, barely sufficient for a Singer, or to write plain Counterpoint.
But when I consider I have undertaken in these Observations, to procure diverse Advantages
to vocal Performers, should I not speak of a Composition, a Subject so necessary, I should
be guilty of a double Fault. My Doubts in this Perplexity are resolved by the Reflection, that
Recitatives have no Relation to Counterpoint. If That be so, what Professor knows not, that
many theatrical Recitatives would be excellent if they were not confused one with another;
if they could be learned by Heart; if they were not deficient in respect of adapting the Musick
to the Words; if they did not frighten those who sing them, and hear them, with unnatural Skips;
if they did not offend the Ear and Rules with the worst Modulations; if they did not disgust
a good Taste with a perpetual Sameness; if, with their cruel Turns and Changes of Keys, they
did not pierce one to the Heart; and, finally, if the Periods were not crippled by them who
know neither Point nor Comma? I am astonished that such as these do not, for their Improvement,
endeavour to imitate the Recitatives of those Authors, who represent in them a lively image
of Nature, by Sounds which of themselves express the Sense, as much as the very Words. But
to what Purpose do I show this Concern about it? Can I expect that these Reasons, with all
their Evidences, will be found good, when, even in regard to Musick, Reason itself is no more
in the Mode? Custom has great Power. She arbitrarily releases her Followers from the Observance
of the true Rules, and obliges them to no other Study than that of the Ritornello's, and will
not let them uselessly employ their precious Time in the Application to Recitative, which,
according to her Precepts, are the work of the Pen, not of the Mind. If it be Negligence or
Ignorance, I know not; but I know very well, that the Singers do not find their Account in it.

§ 13. Much more might still be[49] said on the Compositions of Recitative in general, by reason
of that tedious chanting that offends the Ear, with a thousand broken Cadences in every Opera,
which Custom has established, though they are without Taste or Art. To reform them all, would
be worse than the Disease; the introducing every time a final Cadence would be wrong: But if
in these two Extremes a Remedy were necessary I should think, that among an hundred broken
Cadences, ten of them, briefly terminated on Points that conclude a Period, would not be ill
employed. The Learned, however, do not declare themselves upon it, and from their Silence I
must hold myself condemned.

§ 14.

§ 15. If after these Instructions, the Master does really find himself capable of communicating
to his Scholar Things of greater Moment, and what may concern his farther Progress, he ought
immediately to initiate him in the Study of Church-Airs, in which he must lay aside all the
theatrical effeminate Manner, and sing in a manly Stile; for which Purpose he will provide
him with different natural and easy Motets[50] grand and genteel, mix'd with the Lively and
the Pathetick, adapted to the Ability he has discovered in him, and by frequent Lessons make
him become perfect in them with Readiness and Spirit. At the same time he must be careful that
the Words be well pronounced, and perfectly understood; that the Recitatives be expressed with
Strength, and supported without Affectation; that in the Airs he be not wanting in Time, and
in introducing some Graces of good Taste; and, above all, that the final Cadences of the Motets
be performed with Divisions distinct, swift, and in Tune. After this he will teach him that
Manner, the Taste of Cantata's requires, in order, by this Exercise, to discover the Difference
between one Stile and another. If, after this, the Master is satisfied with his Scholar's Improvement,
yet let him not think to make him sing in Publick, before he has the Opinion of such Persons,
who know more of singing than of flattering; because, they not only will chuse such Compositions
proper to do him Honour and Credit, but also will correct in him those Defects and Errors,
which out of Oversight or Ignorance the Master had not perceived or corrected.

§ 16. If Masters did consider, that from our first appearing in the Face of the World, depends
our acquiring Fame and Courage, they would not so blindly expose their Pupils to the Danger
of falling at the first Step.

§ 17. But if the Master's Knowledge extends no farther than the foregoing Rules, then ought
he in conscience to desist, and to recommend the Scholar to better Instructions. However, before
the Scholar arrives at this, it will not be quite unnecessary to discourse with him in the
following Chapters, and if his Age permits him not to understand me, those, who have the Care
of him, may.

CHAP. VI.

Observations for a Student.

Before entering on the extensive and difficult Study of the Florid, or figured Song, it is
necessary to consult the Scholar's Genius; for if Inclination opposes, it is impossible to
force it, and when That incites, the Scholar proceeds with Ease and Pleasure.

§ 2. Supposing, then, that the Scholar is earnestly desirous of becoming a Master in so agreable
a Profession, and being fully instructed in these tiresome Rudiments, besides many others that
may have slipt my weak Memory; after a strict Care of his Morals, he should give the rest of
his Attention to the Study of singing in Perfection, that by this Means he may be so happy
as to join the most noble Qualities of the Soul to the Excellencies of his Art.

§ 3. He that studies Singing must consider that Praise or Disgrace depends very much on his
Voice which if he has a Mind to preserve he must abstain from all Manner of Disorders, and
all violent Diversions.

§ 4. Let him be able to read perfectly, that he may not be put to Shame for so scandalous an
Ignorance. Oh, how many are there, who had need to learn the Alphabet!

§ 5. In case the Master knows not how to correct the Faults in Pronunciation, let the Scholar
endeavour to learn the best by some other Means; because the not being born[51] in Tuscany,
will not excuse the Singer's Imperfection.

§ 6. Let him likewise very carefully endeavour to correct all other Faults that the Negligence
of his Master may have passed over.

§ 7. With the Study of Musick, let him learn also at least the Grammar, to understand the Words
he is to sing in Churches, and to give the proper Force to the Expression in both Languages.
I believe I may be so bold to say, that divers Professors do not even understand their own
Tongue, much less the Latin.[52]

§ 8. Let him continually, by himself, use his Voice to a Velocity of Motion, if he thinks to
have a Command over it, and that he may not go by the Name of a pathetick Singer.

§ 9. Let him not omit frequently to put forth, and to stop, the Voice, that it may always be
at his Command.

§ 10. Let him repeat his Lesson at Home, till he knows it perfectly; and with a local Memory
let him retain it, to save his Master the Trouble of Teaching, and himself of studying it over
again.

§ 11. Singing requires so strict an Application, that one must study with the Mind, when one
cannot with the Voice.

§ 12. The unwearied Study of Youth is sure to overcome all Obstacles that oppose, though Defects
were suck'd in with our Mother's Milk. This Opinion of mine is subject to strong Objections;
however, Experience will defend it, provided he corrects himself in time. But if he delays
it, the older he grows the more his Faults will increase.

§ 13.

§ 14. Let him endeavour to copy from Both, that he may insensibly, by the Study of others,
get a good Taste. This advice, though extremely useful to a Student, is notwithstanding infinitely
prejudicial to a Singer, as I shall shew in its proper Place[53].

§ 15. Let him often sing the most agreable Compositions of the best Authors, and accustom the
Ear to that which pleases. I'd have a Student know, that by the abovementioned Imitations,
and by the Idea of good Compositions, the Taste in Time becomes Art, and Art Nature.

§ 16. Let him learn to accompany himself, if he is ambitious of singing well. The Harpsichord
is a great Incitement to Study, and by it we continually improve in our Knowledge. The evident
Advantage arising to the Singer from that lovely Instrument, makes it superfluous to say more
on that Head. Moreover, it often happens to one who cannot play, that without the Help of another
he cannot be heard, and is thereby to his Shame obliged to deny the Commands of those whom
it would be to his Advantage to obey.

§ 17. Till a Singer pleases himself, it is certain he cannot please others. Therefore consider,
if some Professors of no small Skill have not this Pleasure for want of sufficient Application,
what must the Scholar do? Study,--and study again, and not be satisfied.

§ 18. I am almost of Opinion, that all Study and Endeavours to sing are infallibly vain, if
not accompanied with some little Knowledge of Counterpoint. One, who knows how to compose,
can account for what he does, and he, who has not the same Light, works in the Dark, not knowing
how to sing without committing Errors. The most famous Ancients know the intrinsick Value of
this Precept from the Effects. And a good Scholar ought to imitate them, without considering
whether this Lesson be according to the Mode or not For though, in these Days, one now and
then hears admirable Performances, proceeding from a natural Taste, yet they are all done by
Chance; but where that Taste is wanting, if they are not execrable, at least they will be very
bad: For Fortune not being always at their Command, they cannot be sure to agree, neither with
Time nor Harmony. This Knowledge, although requisite, I would not however advise a Scholar
to give himself up to an intense Application, it being certain, I should teach him the readiest
way to lose his Voice, but I exhort him only to learn the principal Rules, that he may not
be quite in the Dark.[54]

§ 19. To study much, and preserve a Voice in its full Beauty, are two Things almost incompatible;
there is between them such a sort of Amity, as cannot last without being prejudicial to the
one or the other. However, if one reflects, that Perfection in a Voice is a Gift of Nature,
and in Art a painful Acquisition, it will indeed be allowed, that this latter excels in Merit,
and more deserves our Praise.

§ 20. Whoever studies, let him look for what is most excellent, and let him look for it wherever
it is, without troubling himself whether it be in the Stile of fifteen or twenty Years ago,
or in that of these Days; for all Ages have their good and bad Productions. It is enough to
find out the best, and profit by them.

§ 21. To my irreparable Misfortune, I am old; but were I young, I would imitate as much as
possibly I could the Cantabile of those who are branded with the opprobrious Name of Ancients;
and the Allegro of those who enjoy the delightful Appellation of Moderns. Though my Wish is
vain as to myself, it will be of Use to a prudent Scholar, who is desirous to be expert in
both Manners, which is the only way to arrive at Perfection; but if one was to chuse, I should
freely, without Fear of being tax'd with Partiality, advise him to attach himself to the Taste
of the first.[55]

§ 22. I would like to have you walking in that thick forest growth; there is no underbrush; I
can see from one side to the other.

After a long walk, you come to the noble portals, guarded by lions
couchant, and just beyond is the spot where Louis XVI. was guillotined.


§ 24. Whoever does not aspire to the first Rank, begins already to give up the second, and
by little and little will rest contented with the lowest.

§ 25. If, out of a particular Indulgence to the sex, so many female Singers have the Graces
set down in Writing, one that studies to become a good Singer should not follow the Example;
whoever accustoms himself to have Things put in his Mouth, will have no Invention, and becomes
a Slave to his Memory.

§ 26. If the Scholar should have any Defects, of the Nose, the Throat, or of the Ear, let him
never sing but when the Master is by, or somebody that understands the Profession, in order
to correct him, otherwise he will get an ill Habit, past all Remedy.

§ 27. When he studies his Lesson at Home, let him sometimes sing before a Looking-glass, not
to be enamoured with his own Person, but to avoid those convulsive Motions of the Body, or
of the Face (for so I call the Grimaces of an affected Singer) which, when once they have took
Footing, never leave him.

§ 28. The best Time for Study is with the rising of the Sun; but those, who are obliged to
study, must employ all their Time which can be spared from their other necessary Affairs.

§ 29. After a long Exercise, and the Attainment of a true Intonation, of a Messa di Voce, of
Shakes, of Divisions, and Recitative well expressed, if the Scholar perceives that his Master
cannot teach him all the Perfection of Execution required in the more refined Art of singing
the Airs, or if he cannot always be by his Side, then will he begin to be sensible of the Need
he has of that Study, in which the best Singer in the World is still a Learner, and must be
his own Master. Supposing this Reflection just, I advise him for his first Insight, to read
the following Chapter, in order thereby to reap greater Advantage from those that can sing
the Airs, and teach to sing them.

CHAP. VII.

Of Airs.

If whoever introduced the Custom of repeating the first Part of the Air (which is called Da
Capo) did it out of a Motive to show the Capacity of the Singer, in varying the Repetition,
the Invention cannot be blam'd by Lovers of Musick; though in respect of the Words it is sometimes
an Impropriety.[56]

§ 2. By the Ancients beforementioned, Airs were sung in three different Manners; for the Theatre,
the Stile was lively and various; for the Chamber, delicate and finish'd; and for the Church,
moving and grave. This Difference, to very many Moderns, is quite unknown.

§ 3. A Singer is under the greatest Obligation to the Study of the Airs; for by them he gains
or loses his Reputation. To the acquiring this valuable, Art, a few verbal Lessons cannot suffice;
nor would it be of any great Profit to the Scholar, to have a great Number of Airs, in which
a Thousand of the most exquisite Passages of different Sorts were written down: For they would
not serve for all Purposes, and there would always be wanting that Spirit which accompanies
extempore Performances, and is preferable to all servile Imitations. All (I think) that can
be said, is to recommend to him an attentive Observation of the Art, with which the best Singers
regulate themselves to the Bass, whereby he will become acquainted with their Perfections,
and improve by them. In order to make his Observations with the greater Exactness, let him
follow the Example of a Friend of mine, who never went to an Opera without a Copy of all the
Songs, and, observing the finest Graces, confin'd to the most exact Time of the Movement of
the Bass, he made thereby a great Progress.[57]

§ 4. Among the Things worthy of Consideration, the first to be taken Notice of, is the Manner
in which all Airs divided into three Parts are to be sung. In the first they require nothing
but the simplest Ornaments, of a good Taste and few, that the Composition may remain simple,
plain, and pure; in the second they expect, that to this Purity some artful Graces[58] be added,
by which the Judicious may hear, that the Ability of the Singer is greater; and, in, repeating
the Air, he that does not vary it for the better, is no great Master.

§ 5. Let a Student therefore accustom himself to repeat them always differently, for, if I
mistake not, one that abounds in Invention, though a moderate Singer, deserves much more Esteem,
than a better who is barren of it; for this last pleases the Connoisseurs but for once, whereas
the other, if he does not surprise by the Rareness of his Productions, will at least gratify
your Attention with Variety.[59]

§ 6. The most celebrated among the Ancients piqued themselves in varying every Night their
Songs in the Opera's, not only the Pathetick, but also the Allegro. The Student, who is not
well grounded, cannot undertake this important Task.

§ 7. Without varying the Airs, the Knowledge of the Singers could never be discovered; but
from the Nature and Quality of the Variations, it will be easily discerned in two of the greatest
Singers which is the best.

§ 8. Returning from this Digression to the abovementioned, repeating the first Part of the
Air with Variation, the Scholar will therein find out the Rules for Gracing, and introducing
Beauties of his own Invention: These will teach him, that Time, Taste, and Skill, are sometimes
of but small Advantage to one who is not ready at extempore Embellishments; but they should
not allow, that a Superfluity of them should prejudice the Composition, and confound the Ear.[60]

§ 9. Let a Scholar provide himself with a Variety of Graces and Embellishments, and then let
him make use of them with Judgment; for if he observes, he will find that the most celebrated
Singers never make a Parade of their Talent in a few Songs; well knowing, that if Singers expose
to the Publick all they have in their Shops, they are near becoming Bankrupts.

§ 10. In the Study of Airs, as I have before said, one cannot take Pains enough; for, though
certain Things of small Effect may be omitted, yet how can the Art be called perfect if the
Finishing is wanted.

§ 11. In Airs accompanied only a Bass, the Application of him who studies Graces is only subject
to Time, and to the Bass; but in those, that are accompanied with more Instruments, the Singer
must be also attentive to their Movement, in order to avoid the Errors committed by those who
are ignorant of the Contrivance of such Accompaniments. 

We went to the Grand and Petit Trianon. The great Trianon is a palace
with one story, and having two wings. The little Trianon has two stories.
Here royalty has loved to loiter when tired of the splendors of the
stupendous palace close by. To prevent several false Steps in singing the Airs, I would strongly inculcate to a Student,
first, never to give over practising in private, till he is secure of committing no Error in
Publick; and next, that at the first Rehearsal the Airs be sung without any other Ornaments
than those which are very natural; but with a strict Attention, to examine at the same time
in his Mind, where the artificial ones may be brought in with Propriety in the second; and
so from one Rehearsal to another, always varying for the better, he will by Degrees become
a great Singer.

§ 13. The most necessary Study for singing Airs in Perfection, and what is more difficult than
any other, is to seek for what is easy and natural, as well as of beautiful Inventions. One
who has the good Fortune to unite such two rare Talents, with an agreeable putting forth of
the Voice, is a very happy Singer.

