The electric light improvements consist of four lights, on ordinary gas-lamp posts, in the
top-maidan, and a more ornamental and pretentious affair, immediately in front of the palace;
these are only used on special occasions.  The electric lights are a never-failing source of
wonder and mystification to the common people of the city and the peasants coming in from the
country.  A stroll into the maidan any evening when the four electric lights are making the
gas-lamps glimmer feebler than ever, reveals a small crowd of natives assembled about each
post, gazing wonderingiy up at the globe, endeavoring to penetrate the secret of its brightness,
and commenting freely among themselves in this wise: "Mashallah. Abdullah," says one, " here
does all the light come from. They put no candles in, no naphtha, no anything; where does it
come from?"

"Mashallah!" replies Abdullah, "I don't know; it lights up 'biff!' all of a sudden, without
anybody putting matches to it, or going anywhere near it; nobody knows how it comes about except
Sheitan (Satan) and Sheitan's children, the Ferenghis."

"Al-lah! it is wonderful." echoes another, "and our Shah is a wonderful being to give us such
things to look at - Allah be praised!"

All these strange innovations and incomprehensible things produce a deep impression on the
unenlightened minds of the common Persians, and helps to deify the Shah in their imagination;
for although they know these things come from Frangistan, it seems natural for them to sing
the praises of the Shah in connection with them.  They think these five electric lights in
Teheran among the wonders of the world; the glimmering gas-lamps and the electric lights help
to rivet their belief that their capital is the most wonderful city in the world, and their
Shah the greatest monarch extant.  These extreme ideas are, of course, considerably improved
upon when we leave the ranks of illiteracy; but the Persians capable of forming anything like
an intelligent comparison between themselves and a European nation, are confined to the Shah
himself, the corps diplomatique, and a few prominent personages who have been abroad.  Always
on the lookout for something to please the Shah, the news of my arrival in Teheran on the bicycle
no sooner reaches the ear of the court officials than the monarch hears of it himself.  On
the seventh day after my arrival an officer of the palace calls on behalf of the Shah, and
requests that I favor them all, by following the soldiers who will be sent to-morrow morning,
at eight o'clock, Ferenghi time, to conduct me to the palace, where it is appointed that I
am to meet the "Shah-in-shah and King of kings," and ride with him, on the bicycle, to his
summer palace at Doshan Tepe.

"Yes, I shall, of course, be most happy to accommodate; and to be the means of introducing
to the notice of His Majesty, the wonderful iron horse, the latest wonder from Frangistan,"
I reply; and the officer, after salaaming with more than French politeness, takes his departure.
Promptly at the hour appointed the soldiers present themselves; and after waiting a few minutes
for the horses of two young Englishmen who desire to accompany us part way, I mount the ever-ready
bicycle, and together we follow my escort along several fairly ridable streets to the office
of the foreign minister.  The soldiers clear the way of pedestrians, donkeys, camels, and horses,
driving them unceremoniously to the right, to the left, into the ditch - anywhere out of my
road; for am I not for the time being under the Shah's special protection.  I am as much the
Shah's toy and plaything of the moment, as an electric light, a stop-watch, or as the big Krupp
gun, the concussion of which nearly scared the soldiers out of their wits, by shaking down
the little minars of one of the city gates, close to which they had unwittingly discharged
it on first trial.  The foreign office, like every building of pretension, whether public or
private, in the land of the Lion and the Sun, is a substantial edifice of mud and brick, inclosing
a square court-yard or garden, in which splashing fountains play amid a wealth of vegetation
that springs, as if by waft of magician's wand, from the sandy soil of Persia wherever water
is abundantly supplied.  Tall, slender poplars are nodding in the morning breeze, the less
lofty almond and pomegranate, sheltered from the breezes by the surrounding building, rustle
never a leaf, but seem to be offering Pomona's choice products of nuts and rosy pomegranates,
with modest mien and silence; whilst beds of rare exotics, peculiar to this sunny clime, imparts
to the atmosphere of the cool shaded garden, a pleasing sense of being perfumed.  Here, by
means of the Shah's interpreter, I am introduced to Nasr-i-Mulk, the Persian foreign minister,
a kindly-faced yet business-looking old gentleman, at whose request I mount and ride with some
difficulty around the confined and quite unsuitable foot-walks of the garden; a crowd of officials
and farrashes look on in unconcealed wonder and delight.  True to their Persian characteristic
of inquisitiveness, Nasr-i-Mulk and the officers catechise me unmercifully for some time concerning
the mechanism and capabilities of the bicycle, and about the past and future of the journey
around the world.  In company with the interpreter, I now ride out to the Doshan Tepe gate,
where we are to await the arrival of the Shah.  From the Doshan Tepe gate is some four English
miles of fairly good artificial road, leading to one of the royal summer palaces and gardens.
His Majesty goes this morning to the mountains beyond Doshan Tepe on a shooting excursion,
and wishes me to ride out with his party a few miles, thus giving him a good opportunity of
seeing something of what bicycle travelling is like. The tardy monarch keeps myself and a large
crowd of attendants waiting a full hour at the gate, ere he puts in an appearance.  Among the
crowd is the Shah's chief shikaree (hunter), a grizzled old veteran, beneath whose rifle many
a forest prowler of the Caspian slope of Mazanderau has been laid low.  The shikaree, upon
seeing me ride, and not being able to comprehend how one can possibly maintain the equilibrium,
exclaims: "Oh, ayab Ingilis." (Oh, the wonderful English!) Everybody's face is wreathed in
smiles at the old shikaree's exclamation of wonderment, and when I jokingly advise him that
he ought to do his hunting for the future on a bicycle, and again mount and ride with hands
off handles to demonstrate the possibility of shooting from the saddle, the delighted crowd
of horsemen burst out in hearty laughter, many of them exclaiming, "Bravo! bravo!" At length
the word goes round that the Shah is coming.  Everybody dismounts, and as the royal carriage
drives up, every Persian bows his head nearly to the ground, remaining in that highly submissive
attitude until the carriage halts and the Shah summons myself and the interpreter to his side.
I am the only Ferenghi in the party, my two English companions having returned to the city,
intending to rejoin me when I separate from the Shah.

The Shah impresses one as being more intelligent than the average Persian of the higher class;
and although they are, as a nation, inordinately inquisitive, no Persian has taken a more lively
interest in the bicycle than His Majesty seems to take, as, through his interpreter, he plys
me with all manner of questions.  Among other questions he asks if the Koords didn't molest
me when coming through Koordistan without an escort; and upon hearing the story of my adventure
with the Koordish shepherds between Ovahjik and Khoi, he seems greatly amused.  Another large
party of horsemen arrived with the Shah, swelling the company to perhaps two hundred attendants.
Pedaling alongside the carriage, in the best position for the Shah to see, we proceed toward
Doshan Tepe, the crowd of horsemen following, some behind and others careering over the stony
plain through which the Doshan Tepe highway leads.  After covering about half a mile, the Shah
leaves the carriage and mounts a saddle-horse, in order to the better "put me through some
exercises." First he requests me to give him an exhibition of speed; then I have to ride a
short distance over the rough stone-strewn plain, to demonstrate the possibility of traversing
a rough country, after which he desires to see me ride at the slowest pace possible.  All this
evidently interests him not a little, and he seems even more amused than interested, laughing
quite heartily several times as he rides alongside the bicycle.  After awhile he again exchanges
for the carriage, and at four miles from the city gate we arrive at the palace garden.  Through
this garden is a long, smooth walk, and here the Shah again requests an exhibition of my speeding
abilities.  The garden is traversed with a network of irrigating ditches; but I am assured
there is nothing of the kind across the pathway along which he wishes me to ride as fast as
possible.  Two hundred yards from the spot where this solemn assurance is given, it is only
by a lightning-like dismount that I avoid running into the very thing that I was assured did
not exist-it was the narrowest possible escape from what might have proved a serious accident.

Riding back toward the advancing party, I point out my good fortune in escaping the tumble.
The Shah asks if people ever hurt themselves by falling off bicycles; and the answer that a
fall such as I would have experienced by running full speed into the irrigating ditch, might
possibly result in broken bones, appeared to strike him as extremely humorous; from the way
he laughed I fancy the sending me flying toward the irrigating ditch was one of the practical
jokes that he is sometimes not above indulging in.  After mounting and forcing my way for a
few yards through deep, loose gravel, to satisfy his curiosity as to what could be done in
loose ground, I trundle along with him to a small menagerie he keeps at this place.  On the
way he inquires about the number of wheelmen there are in England and America; whether I am
English or American; why they don't use iron tires on bicycles instead of rubber, and many
other questions, proving the great interest aroused in him by the advent of the first bicycle
to appear in his Capital.  The menagerie consists of one cage of monkeys, about a dozen lions,
and two or three tigers and leopards.  We pass along from cage to cage, and as the keeper coaxes
the animals to the bars, the Shah amuses himself by poking them with an umbrella.  It was arranged
in the original programme that I should accompany them up into their rendezvous in the foot-hills,
about a mile beyond the palace, to take breakfast with the party; but seeing the difficulty
of getting up there with the bicycle, and not caring to spoil the favorable impression already
made, by having to trundle up, I ask permission to take my leave at this point, The request
is granted, and the interpreter returns with me to the city - thus ends my memorable bicycle
ride with the Shah of Persia.

Soon after my ride with the Shah, the Naib-i-Sultan, the Governor of Teheran and commander-in-chief
of the army, asked me to bring the bicycle down to the military maidan, and ride for the edification
of himself and officers.  Being busy at something or other when the invitation was received,
I excused myself and requested that he make another appointment. I am in the habit of taking
a constitutional spin every morning; by means of which I have figured as an object of interest,
and have been stared at in blank amazement by full half the wonder-stricken population of the
city.  The fame of my journey, the knowledge of my appearance before the Shah, and my frequent
appearance upon the streets, has had the effect of making me one of the most conspicuous characters
in the Persian Capital; and the people have bestowed upon me the expressive and distinguishing
title of "the aspi Sahib" (horse-of-iron Sahib).

A few mornings after receiving the Naib-i-Sultan's invitation, I happened to be wheeling past
the military maidan, and attracted by the sound of martial music inside, determined to wheel
in and investigate.  Perhaps in all the world there is no finer military parade ground than
in Teheran; it consists of something over one hundred acres of perfectly level ground, forming
a square that is walled completely in by alcoved walls and barracks, with gaily painted bala-kkanas
over the gates.  The delighted guards at the gate make way and present arms, as they see me
approaching; wheeling inside, I am somewhat taken aback at finding a general review of the
whole Teheran garrison in progress; about ten thousand men are manoeuvring in squads, companies,
and regiments over the ground.

Having, from previous experience on smaller occasions, discovered that my appearance on the
incomprehensible "asp-i-awhan" would be pretty certain to temporarily demoralize the troops
and create general disorder and inattention, I am for a moment undetermined about whether to
advance or retreat.  The acclamations of delight and approval from the nearest troopers at
seeing me enter the gate, however, determines me to advance; and I start off at a rattling
pace around the square, and then take a zig-zag course through the manoeuvring bodies of men.

The sharp-shooters lying prostrate in the dust, mechanically rise up to gaze; forgetting their
discipline, squares of soldiers change into confused companies of inattentive men; simultaneous
confusion takes place in straight lines of marching troops, and the music of the bands degenerates
into inharmonious toots and discordant squeaks, from the inattention of the musicians.  All
along the line the signal runs - not "every Persian is expected to do his duty," but "the asp-i-awhan
Sahib! the asp-i-awhan Sahib!" the whole army is in direful commotion.  In the midst of the
general confusion, up dashes an orderly, who requests that I accompany him to the presence
of the Commander-in-Chief and staff; which, of course, I readily do, though not without certain
misgivings as to my probable reception under the circumstances.  There is no occasion for misgivings,
however; the Naib-i-Sultan, instead of being displeased at the interruption to the review,
is as delighted at the appearance of "the asp-i-anhan, as is Abdul, the drummer-boy, and he
has sent for me to obtain a closer acquaintance.  After riding for their edification, and answering
their multifarious questions, I suggest to the Commander-in-Chief that he ought to mount the
Shah's favorite regiment of Cossacks on bicycles.  The suggestion causes a general laugh among
the company, and he replies: "Yes, asp-i-awhan Cossacks would look very splendid on our dress
parade here in the maidan; but for scouting over our rough Persian mountains" - and the Naib-i-Sultan
finished the sentence with a laugh and a negative shrug of his shoulders.  Two mornings after
this I take a spin out on the Doshan Tepe road, and, upon wheeling through the city gate, I
find myself in the immediate presence of another grand review, again under the personal inspection
of the Naibi-Sultan.  Disturbing two grand reviews within "two days is, of course, more than
I bargained for, and I would gladly have retreated through the gate; but coming full upon them
unexpectedly, I find it impossible to prevent the inevitable result.  The troops are drawn
up in line about fifty yards from the road, and are for the moment standing at ease, awaiting
the arrival of the Shah, while the Commander-in-chief and his staff are indulging in soothing
whiffs at the seductive kalian.  The cry of "asp-i-awhan Sahib!" breaks out all along the line,
and scores of soldiers break ranks, and come running helter-skelter toward the road, regardless
of the line-officers, who frantically endeavor to wave them back.  Dashing ahead, I am soon
beyond the lines, congratulating myself that the effects of my disturbing presence is quickly
over; but ere long, I discover that there is no other ridable road back, and am consequently
compelled to pass before them again on returning.  Accordingly, I hasten to return, before
the arrival of the Shah.  Seeing me returning, the Naib-i-Sultan and his staff advance to the
road, with kalians in hand, their oval faces wreathed in smiles of approbation; they extend
cordial salutations as I wheel past.  The Persians seem to do little more than play at soldiering;
perhaps in no other army in the world could a lone cycler demoralize a general review twice
within two days, and then be greeted with approving smiles and cordial salutations by the commander
and his entire staff.  Through November and the early part of December, the weather in Teheran
continues, on the whole, quite agreeable, and suitable for short-distance wheeling; but mindful
of the long distance yet before me, and the uncertainty of touching at any point where supplies
could be forwarded, I deem it advisable to take my exercise afoot, and save my rubber tires
for the more serious work of the journey to the Pacific.  There are no green lanes down which
to stroll, nor emerald meads through which to wander about the Persian capital, though what
green things there are, retain much of their greenness until the early winter months.  The
fact of the existence of any green thing whatever - and even to a greater extent, its survival
through the scorching summer months - depending almost wholly on irrigation, enables vegetation
to retain its pristine freshness almost until suddenly pounced upon and surprised by the frost.
There is no springy turf, no velvety greensward in the land of the Lion and the Sun.  No sooner
does one get beyond the vegetation, called into existence by the moisture of an irrigating
ditch or a stream, than the bare, gray surface of the desert crunches beneath one's tread.
There is an avenue leading part way from the city to the summer residence of the English Minister
at Gulaek, that conjures up memories of an English lane; but the double row of chenars, poplars,
and jujubes are kept alive by irrigation, and all outside is verdureless desert.

Things are valued everywhere for their scarcity, and a patch of greensward large enough to
recline on, a shady tree or shrub, and a rippling rivulet are appreciated in Persia at their
proper value- appreciated more than broad, green pastures and waving groves of shade-trees
in moister climes. Moreover, there is a peculiar charm in these bright emerald gems, set in
sombre gray, be they never so small and insignificant in themselves, that is not to be experienced
where the contrast is less marked.  Scattered here and there about the stony plain between
Teheran and the Elburz foot- hills, are many beautiful gardens-beautiful for Persia-where a
pleasant hour can be spent wandering beneath the shady avenues and among the fountains.  These
gardens are simply patches redeemed from the desert plain, supplied with irrigating water,
and surrounded with a high mud wall; leading through the garden are gravelled walks, shaded
by rows of graceful chenars.  The gardens are planted with fig, pomegranate, almond or apricot
trees, grape-vines, melons, etc.; they are the property of wealthy Teheranis who derive an
income from the sale of the fruit in the Teheran market.  The ample space within the city ramparts
includes a number of these delightful retreats, some of them presenting the additional charm
of historic interest, from having been the property and, peradventure, the favorite summer
residence of a former king. The buildings, consisting of a number of small detached apartments,
straggling over a surface of ground, about fifteen acres in extent, were neither sufficiently numerous
to lodge the suite, nor to contain the presents and our baggage;
and were moreover so miserably out of repair and in so ruinous a condition,
that the greater part was wholly uninhabitable.

The officers were accordingly told that these were not accommodations suitable to the dignity
of a British Embassador, and that he would not on any consideration put up with them; that
it was a matter of indifference whether he was lodged in the city or the country, but that
the lodgings should be convenient and proper. The superintending officers, upon this, caused
a large temporary building to be erected with poles and mats, which, as by magic, was finished
in the course of the night, hoping, by this exertion, to have removed all objections to the
place. His Lordship, however, being determined not to remain where there was neither a decent room,
nor any kind of comfort or convenience, every building being entirely unfurnished, and, as I said
before, the greater number untenantable, insisted upon being removed to Pekin, where accordingly
it was very soon announced there was a suitable house ready for his reception.

On returning to the capital we passed through the great street of a town called Hai-tien in
which most of the houses were of two stories, and before the upper of which was a kind of Véranda
full of dwarf trees and flower-pots. A great proportion of the houses were either butchers'
shops or coffin-makers. From the end of this street was a most extensive view of Pekin and the
surrounding country. The eye from hence took in the whole length of the high straight wall with its
two lofty gates and numerous square towers. At each angle of the wall is a large square building
rising above the parapet to four heights or stories of port-holes, and covered with two roofs. In
each row of the four fronts are fourteen windows or port-holes. These I understood to be the rice
magazines or public granaries.
  In the centre of the little court is a round tank about four
feet deep, also of white marble, which can be filled at pleasure with water, clear as crystal,
from the running stream.  Leading from an upper chamber, and overlapping the tank, is a smooth-worn
marble slide or shute, about twenty feet long and four broad, which is pitched at an angle
that makes it imperative upon any one trusting themselves to attempt the descent, to slide
helplessly into the tank.  Here, on summer afternoons, with the chastened daylight peeping
through a stained- glass window in the roof, and carpeting the white marble floor with rainbow
hues, with the only entrance to the cool and massive marble court, guarded by armed retainers,
who while guarding it were conscious of guarding their own precious lives, Fattehali Shah was
wont to beguile the hours away by making merry with the bewitching nymphs of his anderoon,
transforming them for the nonce into naiads.

There are no nymphs nor naiads here now, nothing but the smoothly-worn marble shute to tell
the tale of the merry past; but we obtain a realistic idea of their sportive games by taking
the bulldogs to the upper chamber, and giving them a start down the slide.  As they clutch
and claw, and look scared, and appeal mutely for assistance, only to slide gradually down,
down, down, and fall with a splash into the tank at last, we have only to imagine the bull-dogs
transformed into Fatteh-ali Shah's naiads, to learn something of the truth of current stories.
After we have slid the dogs down a few times, and they begin to realize that they are not sliding
hopelessly down to destruction, they enjoy the sport as much as we, or as much as the naiads
perhaps did a hundred years ago.  That portion of the Teheran bazaar immediately behind the
Shah's winter palace, is visited almost daily by Europeans, and their presence excites little
comment or attention from the natives; but I had frequently heard the remark that a Ferenghi
couldn't walk through the southern, or more exclusive native quarters, without being insulted.
Determined to investigate, I sallied forth one afternoon alone, entering the bazaar on the
east side of the palace wall, where I had entered it a dozen times before.

The streets outside are sloppy with melting snow, and the roofed passages of the bazaar, being
dry underfoot, are crowded with people to an unusual extent; albeit they are pretty well crowded
at any time.  Most of the dervishes in the city have been driven, by the inclemency of the
weather, to seek shelter in the bazaar; these, added to the no small number who make the place
their regular foraging ground, render them a greater nuisance than ever.  They are encountered
in such numbers, that no matter which way I turn, I am confronted by a rag-bedecked mendicant,
with a wild, haggard countenance and grotesque costume, thrusting out his gourd alms-receiver,
and muttering "huk yah huk!" each in his own peculiar way.  The mollahs, with their flowing
robes, and huge white turbans, likewise form no inconsiderable proportion of the moving throng;
they are almost without exception scrupulously neat and clean in appearance, and their priestly
costume and Pharisaical deportment gives them a certain air of stateliness.  They wear the
placid expression of men so utterly puffed up with the notion of their own sanctity, that their
self-consciousness verily scorns to shine through their skins, and to impart to them a sleek,
oily appearance.  One finds himself involuntarily speculating on how they all manage to make
a living; the mollah "toils not, neither does he spin," and almost every other person one meets
is a mollah.

The bazaar is a common thoroughfare for anything and everything that can make its way through.
Donkey-riders, horsemen, and long strings of camels and pack-mules add their disturbing influence
to the general confusion; and although hundreds of stalls are heaped up with every merchantable
thing in the city, scores of donkeys laden with similar products are meandering about among
the crowd, the venders shouting their wares with lusty lungs.  In many places the din is quite
deafening, and the odors anything but agreeable to European nostrils; but the natives are not
over fastidious.  The steam issuing from the cook-shops, from coppers of soup, pillau and sheeps'-trotters,
and the less objectionable odors from places where busy men are roasting bazaar-kabobs for
hungry customers all day long, mingle with the aromatic contributions from the spice and tobacco
shops wedged in between them.

The sleek-looking spice merchant, squatting contentedly beside a pan of glowing embers, smoking
kalian after kalian in dreamy contemplation of his assistant waiting on customers, and also
occasionally waiting on him to the extent of replenishing the fire on the kalian, is undoubtedly
the happiest of mortals.  With a kabob-shop on one hand, a sheeps'-trotter-shop on the other,
and a bakery and a fruit-stand opposite, he indulges in tid-bits from either when he is hungry.
With nothing to do but smoke kalians amid the fragrant aroma of his own spices, and keep a
dreamy eye on what passes on around him, his Persian notions of a desirable life cause him
to regard himself as blest beyond comparison with those whose avocations necessitate physical
exertion.  All the shops are open front places, like small fruit and cigar stands in an American
city, the goods being arranged on boards or shelving, sloping down to the front, or otherwise
exposed to the best advantage, according to the nature of the wares; the shops have no windows,
but are protected at night by wooden shutters.  The piping notes of the flute, or the sing-song
voice of the troubadour or story-teller is heard behind the screened entrance of the tchai-khans,
and now and then one happens across groups of angry men quarrelling violently over some trifling
difference in a bargain; noise and confusion everywhere reign supreme.  Here the road is blocked
up by a crowd of idlers watching a trio of lutis, or buffoons, jerking a careless and indifferent-looking
baboon about with a chain to make him dance; and a little farther along is another crowd surveying
some more lutis with a small brown bear.  Both the baboon and the bear look better fed than
their owners, the contributions of the onlookers consisting chiefly of eatables, bestowed upon
the animals for the purpose of seeing them feed.  Half a mile, or thereabouts, from the entrance,
an inferior quarter of the bazaar is reached; the crowds are less dense, the noise is not near
so deafening, and the character of the shops undergoes a change for the worse.  A good many
of the shops are untenanted, and a good many others are occupied by artisans manufacturing
the ruder articles of commerce, such as horseshoes, pack-saddles, and the trappings of camels.
Such articles as kalians, che-bouks and other pipes, geivehs, slippers and leather shoes, hats,
jewelry, etc., are generally manufactured on the premises in the better portions of the bazaar,
where they are sold.  Perched in among the rude cells of industry are cook-shops and tea-drinking
establishments of an inferior grade; and the occupants of these places eye me curiously, and
call one another's attention to the unusual circumstance of a Ferenghi passing through their
quarter.  After half a mile of this, my progress is abruptly terminated by a high mud wall,
with a narrow passage leading to the right.  I am now at the southern extremity of the bazaar,
and turn to retrace my footsteps.  So far I have encountered no particular disposition to insult
anybody; only a little additional rudeness and simple inquisitive-ness, such as might very
naturally have been expected.  But ere I have retraced my way three hundred yards, I meet a
couple of rowdyish young men of the charuadar class; no sooner have I passed them than one
of them wantonly delivers himself of the promised insult - a peculiar noise with the mouth;
they both start off at a run as though expecting to be pursued and punished.  As I turn partially
round to look, an old pomegranate vender stops his donkey, and with a broad grin of amusement
motions me to give chase.  When nearing the more respectable quarter again, I stroll up one
of the numerous ramifications leading toward what looks, like a particularly rough and dingy
quarter.  Before going many steps I am halted by a friendly-faced sugar merchant, with "Sahib,"
and sundry significant shakes of the head, signifying, if he were me, he wouldn't go up there.
And thus it is in the Teheran bazaar; where a Ferenghi will get insulted once, he will find
a dozen ready to interpose with friendly officiousness between him and anything likely to lead
to unpleasant consequences.  On the whole, a European fares better than a Persian in his national
costume would in an Occidental city, in spite of the difference between our excellent police
regulations and next to no regulations at all; he fares better than a Chinaman does in New
York. This mode of the first introduction of silk into China is offered as mere conjecture, for
which I have no other authority in support of, than what is here mentioned, with the circumstance
of the Jews being settled chiefly in the silk provinces, and of their being at this time in
considerable numbers near Hang-tchoo-foo, where they carry on the principal trade in this
article, and have acquired the reputation of fabricating the best stuffs of this material
that are made in China; nor do I know in what other way they could recommend themselves to
the Chinese, so far as to have obtained the protection of this jealous government, and to be
allowed to intermarry with the women of the country.
  The poorer native quarter of Teheran is a shapeless jumble of mud dwellings,
and ruins of the same; the streets are narrow passages describing all manner of crooks and
angles in and out among them.  As I emerge from the vaulted bazaar the sun is almost setting,
and the musicians in the bala-khanas of the palace gates are ushering in the close of another
day with discordant blasts from ancient Persian trumpets, and belaboring hemispherical kettle-
drums.  These musicians are dressed in fantastic scarlet uniforms, not unlike the costume of
a fifteen century jester, and every evening at sundown they repair to these balakhanas, and
for the space of an hour dispense the most unearthly music imaginable. tubes of brass about
five feet long, which respond to the efforts of a strong-winded person, with a diabolical basso-profundo
shriek that puts a Newfoundland fog-horn entirely in the shade.  When a dozen of these instruments
are in full blast, without any attempt at harmony, it seems to shed a depressing shadow of
barbarism over the whole city.  This sunset music is, I think, a relic of very old times, and
it jars on the nerves like the despairing howl of ancient Persia, protesting against the innovation
from the pomp and din and glamour of her old pagan glories, to the present miserable era of
mollah rule and feeble dependence for national existence on the forbearance or jealousy of
other nations. Beneath the musicians' gate, and I emerge into a small square which is half
taken up by a square tank of water; near the tank is a large bronze cannon. It is a huge, unwieldy
piece, and a muzzle-loader, utterly useless to such a people as the Persians, except for ornament,
or perhaps to help impress the masses with an idea of the Shah's unapproachable greatness. 

Hence, a composition if read would be totally unintelligible to the ear, and must be seen to be understood.
The monosyllabic sound assigned to each charter is applied to so many different meanings, that in
its unconnected state it may be said to have no meaning at all.  Passing beneath the
second musicians' gate, I reach the artillery square just in time to see a company of army
buglers formed in line at one end, and a company of musketeers at the other.  As these more
modern trumpeters proceed to toot, the company of musketeers opposite present arms, and then
the music of the new buglers, and the hoarse, fog-horn-like blasts of the fantastic tooters
on the bala-khanas dies away together in a concerted effort that would do credit to a troop
of wild elephants.

