THE INVENTION OF A NEW RELIGION

By B. H. Chamberlain

EMERITUS PROFESSOR OF JAPANESE AND PHILOLOGY AT THE IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO, JAPAN 1912

Transcriber's Notes: A few diacritical marks have had to be removed, but Chamberlain did not
use macrons to represent lengthened vowels. What were footnotes are numbered and moved to the
end of the relevant paragraphs.

THE INVENTION OF A NEW RELIGION (1)

    (Note 1)  The writer of this pamphlet could but
    skim over a wide subject.  For full information see
    Volume I. of Mr. J. Murdoch's recently-published
    "History of Japan," the only critical work on that
    subject existing in the English language.

Voltaire and the other eighteenth-century philosophers, who held religions to be the invention
of priests, have been scorned as superficial by later investigators. But was there not something
in their view, after all? Have not we, of a later and more critical day, got into so inveterate
a habit of digging deep that we sometimes fail to see what lies before our very noses? Modern
Japan is there to furnish an example. The Japanese are, it is true, commonly said to be an
irreligious people. They say so themselves. Writes one of them, the celebrated Fukuzawa, teacher
and type of the modern educated Japanese man: "I lack a religious nature, and have never believed
in any religion." A score of like pronouncements might be quoted from other leading men. The
average, even educated, European strikes the average educated Japanese as strangely superstitious,
unaccountably occupied with supra-mundane matters. The Japanese simply cannot be brought to
comprehend how a "mere parson" such as the Pope, or even the Archbishop of Canterbury, occupies
the place he does in politics and society. Yet this same agnostic Japan is teaching us at this
very hour how religions are sometimes manufactured for a special end--to subserve practical
worldly purposes.

Mikado-worship and Japan-worship--for that is the new Japanese religion--is, of course, no
spontaneously generated phenomenon. Every manufacture presupposes a material out of which it
is made, every present a past on which it rests. But the twentieth-century Japanese religion
of loyalty and patriotism is quite new, for in it pre-existing ideas have been sifted, altered,
freshly compounded, turned to new uses, and have found a new centre of gravity. Not only is
it new, it is not yet completed; it is still in process of being consciously or semi-consciously
put together by the official class, in order to serve the interests of that class, and, incidentally,
the interests of the nation at large. The Japanese bureaucracy is a body greatly to be admired.
It includes most of the foremost men of the nation. Like the priesthood in later Judaea, to
some extent like the Egyptian and Indian priesthoods, it not only governs, but aspires to lead
in intellectual matters. It has before it a complex task. On the one hand, it must make good
to the outer world the new claim that Japan differs in no essential way from the nations of
the West, unless, indeed, it be by way of superiority. On the other hand, it has to manage
restive steeds at home, where ancestral ideas and habits clash with new dangers arising from
an alien material civilisation hastily absorbed.

Down to the year 1888, the line of cleavage between governors and governed was obscured by
the joyful ardour with which all classes alike devoted themselves to the acquisition of European,
not to say American, ideas. Everything foreign was then hailed as perfect--everything old and
national was contemned. Sentiment grew democratic, in so far (perhaps it was not very far)
as American democratic ideals were understood. Love of country seemed likely to yield to a
humble bowing down before foreign models. Officialdom not unnaturally took fright at this abdication
of national individualism. Evidently something must be done to turn the tide. Accordingly,
patriotic sentiment was appealed to through the throne, whose hoary antiquity had ever been
a source of pride to Japanese literati, who loved to dwell on the contrast between Japan's
unique line of absolute monarchs and the short-lived dynasties of China. Therefore, the important
right of burial, never before possessed by it, was granted to its priests. Later on, the right
of marriage was granted likewise--an entirely novel departure in a land where marriage had
never been more than a civil contract. A crimson tide overflowed Leo's cheeks, but accepting the
cue of silence, she refrained from any manifestation of previous acquaintance; and bending
over the pictures, listened to the grave, sweet voice that briefly, though courteously answered
all inquiries concerning the school, hours of classes, tuition fees, remunerative rates paid
for designs for carpets, wall papers and decorative upholstering. Unrolling from a wooden cylinder
a strip of thick paper, two yards long and twenty inches wide, she displayed an elaborate arabesque
pattern done in sepia for a sgraffito frieze, sixteenth century, which had been ordered by the
architect of the new "Museum of Art".

"A bit of your favorite Florentine facade," said the Bishop, addressing his cousin, and peering
closely at the scroll work.

"In this corner of the world, one scarcely expects a glimpse of Andrea Feltrini," answered
Leo, avoiding the necessity of looking at Beryl, by glancing at Mr. Kendall.

"What are your sources of information?" inquired Bishop Douglass.

"We have a carefully selected collection of engravings, and a few good sketches and cartoons;
moreover, some of our Sisterhood have been in Italy."
In attempting to roll the strip, it slipped from her fingers. Both
women stooped to catch it, and their hands met. Looking into Leo's
eyes, Beryl whispered: "See me alone." Then she rewound the paper,
restored its oil silk cover, and shut the drawer.

"Do you find that
the demand for purely ornamental work renders this department self-sustaining?"
asked Leighton Douglass.

"I think the experience of the 'Anchorage'
justifies that belief; especially since the popularization of so-called
'Decorative Art', which projects the useful into the realm of the
beautiful; and by lending the grace of ornament to the strictly utilitarian,
dims the old line of demarcation." To this extent, where
a purpose useful to the ruling class is to be served, criticism is practised, though not avowedly.
Far different is the case with so-called "historical facts," such as the alleged foundation
of the Monarchy in 660 B.C. and similar statements paralleled only for absurdity by what passed
for history in mediaeval Europe, when King Lear, Brute, King of Britain, etc., etc., were accepted
as authentic personages. For the truth, known to all critical investigators, is that, instead
of going back to a remote antiquity, the origins of Japanese history are recent as compared
with that of European countries. This despite the fact that the mythology and the so-called
early history are recorded in the same works, and are characterised by like miraculous impossibilities;
that the chronology is palpably fraudulent; that the speeches put into the mouths of ancient
Mikados are centos culled from the Chinese classics; that their names are in some cases derived
from Chinese sources; and that the earliest Japanese historical narratives, the earliest known
social usages, and even the centralised Imperial form of Government itself, are all stained
through and through with a Chinese dye, so much so that it is no longer possible to determine
what percentage of old native thought may still linger on in fragments here and there. In the
face of all this, moral ideals, which were of common knowledge derived from the teaching of
the Chinese sages, are now arbitrarily referred to the "Imperial Ancestors." Such, in particular,
are loyalty and filial piety--the two virtues on which, in the Far-Eastern world, all the others
rest. It is, furthermore, officially taught that, from the earliest ages, perfect concord has
always subsisted in Japan between beneficent sovereigns on the one hand, and a gratefully loyal
people on the other. Never, it is alleged, has Japan been soiled by the disobedient and rebellious
acts common in other countries; while at the same time the Japanese nation, sharing to some
extent in the supernatural virtues of its rulers, has been distinguished by a high-minded chivalry
called Bushido, unknown in inferior lands.

Such is the fabric of ideas which the official class is busy building up by every means in
its power, including the punishment of those who presume to stickle for historic truth. From
the remote island to which he had been relegated one managed to escape, hidden under a load
of dried fish. In the fourteenth century, things came to such a pass that two rival Imperial
lines defied each other for the space of fifty-eight years--the so-called Northern and Southern
Courts; and it was the Northern Court, branded by later historians as usurping and illegitimate,
that ultimately won the day, and handed on the Imperial regalia to its successors.

As for Bushido, so modern a thing is it that neither Kaempfer, Siebold, Satow, nor Rein--all
men knowing their Japan by heart--ever once allude to it in their voluminous writings. The
cause of their silence is not far to seek: Bushido was unknown until a decade or two ago! THE
VERY WORD APPEARS IN NO DICTIONARY, NATIVE OR FOREIGN, BEFORE THE YEAR 1900. Chivalrous individuals
of course existed in Japan, as in all countries at every period; but Bushido, as an institution
or a code of rules, has never existed. The accounts given of it have been fabricated out of
whole cloth, chiefly for foreign consumption. An analysis of medieval Japanese history shows
that the great feudal houses, so far from displaying an excessive idealism in the matter of
fealty to one emperor, one lord, or one party, had evolved the eminently practical plan of
letting their different members take different sides, so that the family as a whole might come
out as winner in any event, and thus avoid the confiscation of its lands. Cases, no doubt,
occurred of devotion to losing causes--for example, to Mikados in disgrace; but they were less
common than in the more romantic West.

Thus, within the space of a short lifetime, the new Japanese religion of loyalty and patriotism
has emerged into the light of day. The feats accomplished during the late war with Russia show
that the simple ideal which it offers is capable of inspiring great deeds. From a certain point
of view the nation may be congratulated on its new possession.

                *****

The new Japanese religion consists, in its present early stage, of worship of the sacrosanct
Imperial Person and of His Divine Ancestors, of implicit obedience to Him as head of the army
(a position, by the way, opposed to all former Japanese ideas, according to which the Court
was essentially civilian); furthermore, of a corresponding belief that Japan is as far superior
to the common ruck of nations as the Mikado is divinely superior to the common ruck of kings
and emperors. Do not the early history-books record the fact that Japan was created first,
while all other countries resulted merely from the drops that fell from the creator's spear
when he had finished his main work? And do not the later annals prove that true valour belongs
to the Japanese knight alone, whereas foreign countries--China and Europe alike--are sunk in
a degrading commercialism? For the inhabitants of "the Land of the Gods" to take any notice
of such creatures by adopting a few of their trifling mechanical inventions is an act of gracious
condescension.

To quote but one official utterance out of a hundred, Baron Oura, minister of agriculture and
commerce, writes thus in February of last year:--

   That the majesty of our Imperial House towers high
   above everything to be found in the world, and that
   it is as durable as heaven and earth, is too well
   known to need dwelling on here......  If it is
   considered that our country needs a religious faith,
   then, I say, let it be converted to a belief in the
   religion of patriotism and loyalty, the religion of
   Imperialism--in other words, to Emperor-worship.

The Rev. Dr. Ebina,(2) one of the leading lights of the Protestant pastorate in Japan, plunges
more deeply still into this doctrine, according to which, as already noted, the whole Japanese
nation is, in a manner, apotheosised. Says he:--

   Though the encouragement of ancestor-worship cannot
   be regarded as part of the essential teaching of
   Christianity (!), it (3) is not opposed to the
   notion that, when the Japanese Empire was founded,
   its early rulers were in communication with the
   Great Spirit that rules the universe.  Christians,
   according to this theory, without doing violence
   to their creed, may acknowledge that the Japanese
   nation has a divine origin.  It is only when we
   realise that the Imperial Ancestors were in close
   communion with God (or the Gods), that we understand
   how sacred is the country in which we live.  (Dr.
   Ebina ends by recommending the Imperial Rescript on
   Education as a text for Christian sermons.)

     (Note 2)  We quote from the translation given
     by Mr. Walter Dening in one of the invaluable
     "Summaries of Current Japanese Literature,"
     contributed by him from time to time to the
     columns of the "Japan Mail," Yokohama.

     (Note 3)  "It" means Christianity.

It needs no comment of ours to point out how thoroughly the nation must be saturated by the
doctrines under discussion for such amazing utterances to be possible. If so-called Christians
can think thus, the non-Christian majority must indeed be devout Emperor-worshippers and Japan-worshippers.
Such the go-ahead portion of the nation undoubtedly is--the students, the army, the navy, the
emigrants to Japan's new foreign possessions, all the more ardent spirits. The peasantry, as
before noted, occupy themselves little with new thoughts, clinging rather to the Buddhist beliefs
of their forefathers. But nothing could be further removed from even their minds than the idea
of offering any organised resistance to the propaganda going on around them.

As a matter of fact, the spread of the new ideas has been easy, because a large class derives
power from their diffusion, while to oppose them is the business of no one in particular. Moreover,
the disinterested love of truth for its own sake is rare; the patience to unearth it is rarer
still, especially in the East. Patriotism, too, is a mighty engine working in the interests
of credulity. How should men not believe in a system that produces such excellent practical
results, a system which has united all the scattered elements of national feeling into one
focus, and has thus created a powerful instrument for the attainment of national aims? Meanwhile
a generation is growing up which does not so much as suspect that its cherished beliefs are
inventions of yesterday.

The new religion, in its present stage, still lacks one important item--a sacred book. Certain
indications show that this lacuna will be filled by the elevation of the more important Imperial
Rescripts to that rank, accompanied doubtless by an authoritative commentary, as their style
is too abstruse to be understanded of the people. To these Imperial Rescripts some of the poems
composed by his present Majesty may be added. In fact, a volume on the whole duty of Japanese
man, with selected Imperial poems as texts, has already appeared. (4)

     (Note 4)  For over a thousand years the composition
     of Japanese and Chinese verse has formed part of a
     liberal education, like the composition of Latin
     verse among ourselves.  The Court has always
     devoted much time to the practice of this art.
     But the poems of former Emperors were little
     known, because the monarchs themselves remained
     shut up in their palace, and exercised no
     influence beyond its walls.  With his present
     Majesty the case is entirely different.  Moreover,
     some of his compositions breathe a patriotism
     formerly undreamt of.

                *****

One might have imagined that Japan's new religionists would have experienced some difficulty
in persuading foreign nations of the truth of their dogmas. Things have fallen out otherwise.
Europe and America evince a singular taste for the marvellous, and find a zest in self-depreciation.
Our eighteenth-century ancestors imagined all perfections to be realised in China, thanks to
the glowing descriptions then given of that country by the Jesuits. Twentieth-century Europe
finds its moral and political Eldorado in distant Japan, a land of fabulous antiquity and incredible
virtues. There is no lack of pleasant-mannered persons ready to guide trustful admirers in
the right path. Official and semi-official Japanese, whether ambassadors and ministers-resident
or peripatetic counts and barons, make it their business to spread a legend so pleasing to
the national vanity, so useful as a diplomatic engine. Lectures are delivered, books are written
in English, important periodicals are bought up, minute care is lavished on the concealment,
the patching-up, and glossing-over of the deep gulf that nevertheless is fixed between East
and West. The foreigner cannot refuse the bolus thus artfully forced down his throat. He is
not suspicious by nature. How should he imagine that people who make such positive statements
about their own country are merely exploiting his credulity? HE has reached a stage of culture
where such mythopoeia has become impossible. On the other hand, to control information by consulting
original sources lies beyond his capacity.

For consider this peculiar circumstance: the position of European investigators vis-a-vis Japan
differs entirely from that of Japanese vis-a-vis Europe. The Japanese possess every facility
for studying and understanding Europe. Europeans are warded off by well-nigh insuperable obstacles
from understanding Japan. Europe stands on a hill-top, in the sunlight, glittering afar. Her
people court inspection. "Come and see how we live"--such was a typical invitation which the
present writer recently received. A thousand English homes are open to any Japanese student
or traveller who visits our shores. An alphabet of but six-and-twenty simple letters throws
equally wide open to him a literature clearly revealing our thoughts, so that he who runs may
read. Japan lies in the shadow, away on the rim of the world. Her houses are far more effectually
closed to the stranger by their paper shutters than are ours by walls of brick or stone. What
we call "society" does not exist there. Her people, though smiling and courteous, surround
themselves by an atmosphere of reserve, centuries of despotic government having rendered them
suspicious and reticent. True, when a foreigner of importance visits Japan--some British M.P.,
perhaps, whose name figures often in the newspapers, or an American editor, or the president
of a great American college--this personage is charmingly received. But he is never left free
to form his own opinion of things, even were he capable of so doing. Circumstances spin an
invisible web around him, his hosts being keenly intent on making him a speaking-trumpet for
the proclamation of their own views.

Again, Japan's non-Aryan speech, marvellously intricate, almost defies acquisition. Suppose
this difficult vernacular mastered; the would-be student discovers that literary works, even
newspapers and ordinary correspondence, are not composed in it, but in another dialect, partly
antiquated, partly artificial, differing as widely from the colloquial speech as Latin does
from Italian. Make a second hazardous supposition. Assume that the grammar and vocabulary of
this second indispensable Japanese language have been learnt, in addition to the first. "It is
written legibly all over their lovely petals. You wish me a rose-strewn itinerary, all conceivable
forms of 'good luck'; as though you stood on tip-toe and shouted after me: 'Gluck auf.' As
a happy augury, I accept it. Like the old Romans, you have offered up for me a dainty sacrifice
to propitiate Domiduca--the goddess who grants travellers a safe return home."
"Meanwhile I hope you see quite as clearly, that the thorns have
all been stripped off and set thickly along my path?"

The result of all this is that, whereas the Japanese know everything that it imports them to
know about us, Europeans cannot know much about them, such information as they receive being
always belated, necessarily meagre, and mostly adulterated to serve Japanese interests. International
relations placed--and, we repeat it, inevitably placed--on this footing resemble a boxing match
in which one of the contestants should have his hands tied. But the metaphor fails in an essential
point, as metaphors are apt to do--the hand-tied man does not realise the disadvantage under
which he labours. He thinks himself as free as his opponent.

Thus does it come about that the neo-Japanese myths concerning dates, and Emperors, and heroes,
and astonishing national virtues already begin to find their way into popular English text-books,
current literature, and even grave books of reference. The Japanese governing class has willed
it so, and in such matters the Japanese governing class can enforce its will abroad as well
as at home. The statement may sound paradoxical. Study the question carefully, and you will
find that it is simply true.

                *****

What is happening in Japan to-day is evidently exceptional. Normal religious and political
change does not proceed in that manner; it proceeds by imperceptible degrees. But exceptions
to general rules occur from time to time in every field of activity. Are they really exceptions,
using that term in its current sense--to denote something arbitrary, and therefore unaccountable?
Surely these so-called exceptions are but examples of rules of rarer application.

The classic instance of the invention of a new national religion is furnished by the Jews of
the post-exilic period. The piecing together, then, of a brand-new system under an ancient
name is now so well understood, and has produced consequences of such world-wide importance,
that the briefest reference to it may suffice. Works which every critic can now see to be relatively
modern were ascribed to Moses, David, or Daniel; intricate laws and ordinances that had never
been practised--could never be practised--were represented as ancient institutions; a whole
new way of thinking and acting was set in motion on the assumption that it was old. Yet, so
far as is known, no one in or out of Palestine ever saw through the illusion for over two thousand
years. It was reserved for nineteenth-century scholars to draw aside the veil hiding the real
facts of the case.

Modern times supply another instance, less important than the first, but remarkable enough.
Rousseau came in the middle of the eighteenth century, and preached a doctrine that took the
world by storm, and soon precipitated that world in ruins. How did he discover his gospel?
He tells us quite naively:--

   All the rest of the day, buried in the forest, I
   sought, I found there the image of primitive ages,
   whose history I boldly traced.  I made havoc of men's
   petty lies; I dared to unveil and strip naked man's
   true nature, to follow up the course of time and of
   the circumstances that have disfigured it, and,
   comparing man as men have made him with man as
   nature made him, to demonstrate that the so-called
   improvements (of civilisation) have been the source
   of all his woes, etc. (5)

     (Note 5)  "Confessions," Book VIII., year 1753.

In other words, he spun a pseudo-history from his own brain. What is stranger, he fanatically
believed in this his pure invention, and, most extraordinary of all, persuaded other people
to believe in it as fanatically. It was taken up as a religion, it inspired heroes, and enabled
a barefoot rabble to beat the finest regular armies in the world. Even now, at a distance of
a century and a half, its embers still glow.

Of course, it is not pretended that these various systems of thought were ARBITRARY inventions.
No more were they so than the cloud palaces that we sometimes see swiftly form in the sky and
as swiftly dissolve. Only the hissing sound of the rain upon the glass pane of the carriage, made reply.

They had reached the bridge, when a hysterical laugh startled the
man, who leaned back on the front seat, with his arms crossed tightly
over a heart throbbing with almost unendurable pain. He gave
exactly what was needed at that moment of history--what appeared self-evident; wherefore no
one so much as thought of asking for detailed proofs. His deism, his statements concerning
the "state of nature" and the "social contract," etc., were at once recognised by the people
of his day as eternal verities. What need for discussion or investigation?

The case of Judaea is obscure; but it would seem that something analogous must have happened
there, when the continuity of national life had been snapped by the exile. A revolutionised
and most unhappy present involved a changed attitude towards the past. Oral tradition and the
scraps of written records that had survived the shipwreck of the kingdom fell, as it were,
naturally into another order. The kaleidoscope having been turned, the pattern changed of itself.
A few gifted individuals voiced the enthusiasm of a whole community, when they adopted literary
methods which would now, in our comparatively stable days, be branded as fraudulent. They simply
could not help themselves. The pressing need of constructing a national polity for the present
on the only basis then possible--Yahwe worship--FORCED them into falsifying the past. The question
was one of life and death for the Jewish nationality.

