 Uncle Jacob said the biggest battle was at Honey Springs (1863). That was down near Elk Creek,
close by Checotah, below Rentiersville. He said it was the most terrible fighting he seen, but
the Union soldiers whipped and went back into Fort Gibson.

  "If you want
something to do, go and get me some flowers. Everyone has flowers but me.  It's outrageous.
Get heaps."

Marney flurried down the platform, bent on her errand, and Diana Vernilands immediately issued
from the doorstep of the carriage and gazed eagerly and invitingly at the crowd.

Ordinarily the beauty alone of the sables which muffled her ears and fell to her heels would
have focused attention, not to mention the eager liveliness of her face.  But on this occasion
no one returned her vivid glances.  Everyone was busy with their own affairs and friends. 
The only person seeming as isolated and lonely as herself was another girl, who, having made
a tour from one end of the train to the other in vain quest of a seat, was now wearily and
furiously doing the return trip.  No porter followed her; she carried her own dressing-case
and rugs, and she, too, was without flowers.  This last fact clenched Lady Diana's decision.
A bond of loneliness and flowerlessness existed between them.  She hailed the other girl deliriously.

"Hi!  Are you looking for a place?" she cried.  "Come in here.  I've got a carriage to myself."

The other was as astonished as relieved.

"Oh, may I?  How awfully good of you!" she said warmly, and stepping into the carriage, bestowed
her possessions in such small space as was not already encumbered.  Then she looked at Lady
Diana in the doorway with a pair of lovely but rather sad violet eyes that had smoky shadows
beneath them.

"I shall have to fight about my ticket with the ticket collector when he comes round.  It is
only a second-class one.  I hope you don't mind?"

"Mind!" said Diana.  "I hate everyone in authority, and I love rows and cocktails and excitement.
Still, it might save time to pay."

"It might," said the other "but I'm not going to.  There were no second-class seats left, so
the onus is on them.  Besides"--her creamy face flushed faintly and her eyes became defiant--"I
can't afford it."

Diana could very well believe it, for she had seldom seen a girl so badly dressed.  However,
the deep blue eyes that had all sorts of pansy tints lying dormant in them, and the winging
black satin hair that looked as if smoke had been blown through it, could not be obscured even
by a shabby hat.  Diana's own hair being a violent apricot and her eyes of the same colour
as a glass of sherry with the sun on it, she could admire without pain this type so different
to her own.

The fact was that they were as striking a pair of girls as any one could hope to meet in a
day's march, but the delicate beauty of one was under a cloud which only a connoisseur's eye
could see through--badly-cut garments and an unfashionable hat!  On the other hand, Lady Diana's
highly-coloured and slightly dairymaidish prettiness would have been more attractive in simpler
and less costly clothes.  While they were coming to these conclusions about each other an inspector
of tickets entered the carriage.  Diana delightedly braced herself for a row, but there was
no need for it.  Whether it was the charm of the strange girl's golden voice, or the subtle
air of luxury and independence combined with a faint odour of Russian leather and honey that
stole from the furs of Lady Diana Vernilands, none can tell, but the inspector behaved like
a man under the influence of hypnotism.  He listened to the tale of the second-class ticket
as to words of Holy Writ, and departed like a man in a dream without having uttered a single
protest, and at Lady Diana's behest, carefully locking the door behind him.  A moment later
whistles, shouts, and the clicking of hundreds of farewell kisses signalled the train's immediate
departure.  The devoted Marney, carrying what appeared to be a bridal bouquet of white lilies
and roses, dashed up just in time to make a last attempt to accompany her mistress.  But the
door was unyielding, and the worst she could do was to claw at the window as she panted alongside
the now moving train, crying:

"You'd better let me come with you, now, Miss Diana your Ladyship. . . ."

The latter only waved her hand in kind but firm dismissal.

"Go home and look after papa, Marney, and don't worry about me.  I shall be back soon."  As
the train took a jump and finally fled from the station, leaving Marney far behind, she added
thoughtfully, "I don't think!" and burst out laughing.

"Just as though I would hurry back to frowsy old England the first time I've ever managed to
get away from it on my own!"

The other girl looked at her with deep, reflective eyes.

"If you had been on your own as much as I have you wouldn't think it such a catch," she remarked,
with a little dry smile.

"Oh, wouldn't I!  I can't imagine anything more heavenly than having no relations in the world.
It must be perfect paradise!"

"It's the paradise I have lived in for three years," said April Poole sombrely, "and any one
who likes it can have it, and give me their hell instead."

"What!" cried Diana Vernilands, not sympathetic, but astounded and eager. She stared at the
other with envious, avid eyes that filled and brightened at last with an amazing plan.  It
burst from her like a shell from a gun.  "Let's change places: I be you, and you be me!"

April considered her, and being very weary of her own destiny, considered the plan also.  But
though she was as ardent as any one for flyaway schemes and fantastic adventure, this plan
looked to her too Arabian-nightish altogether, and not likely to hold water for more than the
length of the journey from Waterloo to Southampton.

"How can we?  I am a poverty-stricken girl, going out to governess at the Cape.  You, a peer's
daughter, I suppose, who will be met on the boat and surrounded by every care and attention. . . ."

"Yes, surrounded!" Diana interrupted savagely.  With sudden fury she tore off the little sable
hat, flung it on the seat beside her and stabbed it viciously with a great pearl pin.  "I'm
sick of being surrounded!  I wish to goodness I were Alexander Selkirk, shipwrecked on a desert
island."

"That wouldn't be much fun, either," said April.  "I don't think there is much fun anywhere.
We have all got what we don't want, and want what we can't get."

"You couldn't not want a face like yours," said Diana, handsomely.  It gave her no pain, as
has been mentioned before, because April was dark. If she had been addressing a blonde like
herself, wild cats could not have torn such a compliment from Diana Vernilands.

"Couldn't I?  Good looks without the surroundings and clothes to put them in are not much of
a gift.  Beauty in a third-class carriage and shabby clothes looks cheap and is fair game for
any one's stalking."

"Well, change with me, then," urged Diana.  "I'd rather be stalked than gazed at from afar
like a brazen image."

She gave her hat another stab.  April quivered all over, like a mother who sees a child ill-treated.

"Don't do that," she cried at last, in a poignant voice.  She had seen that hat in her dreams
for years, but never got so near it before.  Diana Vernilands looked at her thoughtfully, then
held it out.

"Put it on," she entreated.  "Wear it, and be surrounded instead of me. Oh, for Heaven's sake
do!  I see you are just as keen as I am, and just as sick of being who you are.  Try it on."

She may have meant the hat, or she may have meant the plan.  April accepted the hat, and with
it the plan.  From the moment she saw herself in the glass her doom was dight.  There was a
little star-like purple flower, such as never grew on land or sea, nestling in the golden darkness
of the fur.  It seemed to April a flower that might have been plucked from the slopes of the
blue hills of Nirvana, or found floating on the still waters of Lethe in that land where it
is always afternoon. It brought dreams of romance to her heart, and made starry flowers of
its own colour blossom in her eyes.  She crushed the hat softly down upon her dark, winging
hair, crinking and shaping it to frame her face at the right angle.  Her fate was sealed.

"All right," she said, in a slow, dreamy voice.  "Let's arrange it."

So while the train swooped on its way to the port whence the great ships turn their noses towards
the Southern Cross, they drew up the plot, and the rôles were cast.  Diana Vernilands, for
the duration of the voyage only, was to be the penniless, friendless English girl, who could
go her ways freely and talk and mix with any one she liked without being watched and criticized.
April Poole, in the lovely hats and gowns and jewels of Lady Diana, would accept the dignity
and social obligations that hedge a peer's daughter, even on a voyage to South Africa.  On
arrival at the Cape, each to assume her identity and disappear from the ken of their fellow-travellers:
April to be swallowed up by a Cape suburb, where she was engaged to teach music and French
to the four daughters of a rich wine-grower; Diana to proceed to her destination--the farm
of an eccentric woman painter, somewhere on the veld.

It all looked as simple and harmless as picking apples in an orchard.  No one would be any
the wiser, they said, and no harm would accrue to anybody, while each girl would have the experience
of enjoying herself in a new and original fashion.  The only things they did not take into
their calculations were their personal idiosyncrasies and the machinations of an old hag called
Fate.

"What a time I'll have!" cried Diana.  "Though what you will get out of it as the Earl of Roscannon's
daughter beats me.  You won't be sick of it half way and want to change back, I hope?"

"If you only knew how sick I am of being April Poole you wouldn't be afraid," was the fervent
answer.  Diana looked at her curiously.

"It can't be only the clothes--though of course I imagine it must be rotten, not having the
right clothes.  By the way, there are plenty for us both, you know.  I did myself well in the
shopping line, fortunately."

"I should hardly expect you to wear mine," said April drily.  "No, as you rightly suspect,
it isn't for the clothes, though they fascinate and lure me.  And it isn't for the honour and
glory of being Lady Diana, though that is fascinating too, and it will be priceless to have
the joke on the rest of the world for once.  It is for various subtle reasons which I don't
suppose you would altogether understand. . . ."

"Never mind them, then," interrupted Diana.  "I'm not a bit subtle, and don't care tuppence
for reasons.  All I care about is having a topping time for once in my life.  Now, listen,
I'll tell you a few things about myself, so that you won't get bowled if any one asks you.
My father is Lord Roscannon, and our place is Bethwick Castle, in Northumberland. It's a gloomy
old place that would give you the creeps.  My mother died twenty-two years ago when I was born,
and my father doesn't care about anything except archaeology, so I have always been in the
clutches of my maiden aunt, Lady Grizel Vernilands, who ruled Bethwick and me as long as I
can remember.  Everyone called her the Grizzly Bear.

"Never mind, she's dead now, and I have been able to persuade papa that my health needs a sea
voyage.  He suggested the Continent--of course with a companion.  But I have been clawed backwards
and forwards on the Continent for years by Aunt Grizel, and have had enough. Oklahoma Writers'
Project Ex-Slaves

10-19-38 520 Words

NANCY ROGERS BEAN Age about 82 Hulbert, Okla.

I'm getting old and it's easy to forget most of the happenings of slave days; anyway I was
too little to know much about them, for my mammy told me I was born
about six years before the War.

My folks was on their way to Fort Gibson, and on the trip I was born
at Boggy Depot, down in southern Oklahoma.

There was a lot of us
children; I got their names somewheres here. Yes, there was George,
Sarah, Emma, Stella, Sylvia, Lucinda, Rose, Dan, Pamp, Jeff, Austin,
Jessie, Isaac and Andrew; we all lived in a one-room log cabin on
Master Rogers' place not far from the old military road near Choteau.
Mammy was raised around the Cherokee town of Tahlequah.  "No one will put you any piercing questions
about my family, or be in a position to contradict your statements."

The Poole family tree, in fact, grew as tall and old as the Roscannon's upon the pages of heraldry,
but drink and riotous living had perished its roots and rotted its branches long before April
was born.  Her father, its last hope, had been a scamp and gamester who broke his wife's heart
and bequeathed the cup of poverty and despair to his child's lips.  But these were things locked
in April's heart, and not for idle telling in a railway carriage.

"I am an orphan without relatives or friends," she went on quietly.  "No assets except musical
tastes and a knowledge of languages, picked up in cheap Continental schools.  I am twenty,
and rather embittered by life, but I try not to be, because there's nothing can blacken the
face of the sun like bitterness of heart, is there?  It can spoil even a spring day."

Diana looked vague.  In spite of tilts and tournaments with the Grizzly Bear, she had no more
knowledge of that affliction of bitterness to which April referred than of the bitterness of
affliction.  The fact was patent in the gay light of her sherry-brown eye and her red mouth,
so avid for pleasure.  The book of life's difficulties, well conned by April Poole, was still
closed to the Earl's only daughter.

"Perhaps she will know a little more about it by the end of the voyage," thought April, but
without a tinge of malice, for in truth she was neither malicious nor bitter, though she often
pretended to herself to be both.  Whatever life had done to her, it had not yet robbed her
of her powers of resilience, nor quenched her belief in the ultimate benevolence of Fate. 
Her joy in voyaging to a great unknown land had been a little dimmed by the prospect of the
monotonous drudgery that awaits most governesses, but here, already cropping up by the wayside,
was a compensating adventure, and her heart, which had been reposing in her boots, took little
wings of delight unto itself and nearly flew away with excitement.

Eager as Diana, she threw herself into a discussion of clothes, personal tastes and habits,
the exchange of cabins, and ways and means of circumventing the curiosity and suspicion of
their fellow-travellers. Diana could not do her own hair, but had ascertained that there was
a hairdresser on board whom she could visit every day.  The ticket for her first-class stateroom
she cheerfully handed over to April, in exchange for one which gave possession of a berth in
a cheaper cabin to be shared with another woman.

"We must do the thing thoroughly," she insisted, "and I shan't mind sharing in the least. 
It may be amusing if the other woman is pleasant. I don't think you and I had better know each
other too well to begin with, do you?  We can pretend to make friends as the voyage goes on.
Or shall we say that we were at school together?"

"Let us say as little as possible," said April, who had an objection to telling lies, even
little white ones.  But Diana did not share her scruples, and plainly averred her intention
of "spinning a yarn" to any one who asked questions.

In a whirl of excitement they arrived at the docks, and were hustled with the rest of the crowd
up the steep gangway that led to the deck of the Union Castle Company's latest and most modern
liner, the Clarendon Castle.  April, who had exchanged her cloth coat for Diana's sables, felt
the eyes of the world burning and piercing through the costly furs to the secret in her bosom.
But Diana felt no such discomfort, jubilant in her new-found liberty, she paced the decks,
inspected the ship, made friends with the first officer and several passengers, and finally
went down to lunch in the dining saloon.  She seated herself at the general table, and as a
number of merry people were toasting each other farewell in champagne, she thought it only
fitting to order a half-bottle for herself.  Some of the women looked at her curiously, but
that did not daunt Diana, especially after she had begun on the champagne.

April, placed at some distance in solitary state, noted and envied the coolness and composure
of her fellow-conspirator.  She, too, had meant to be one of the general crowd, but already
the news of her rank and state had tickled the ears of the chief steward, and she found herself
reverently waylaid and conducted with ceremony to a small table, whence she could gaze and
be gazed upon by the rest of the world without fear of contamination.  A steward, told off
for her special service, hovered about her like a guardian angel, and during the meal a gold-braided
personality approached and, murmuring the Captain's compliments, hoped that when the voyage
had once started she would grace his table by her presence.  Afar off, Diana cast her a grin
over the rim of a wine-glass, but gave no further sign of recognition.

It is a phenomenon well known to travellers, that when the last warning bell rings on board
a departing ship all the pretty women and interesting men go ashore, leaving only the dull
and fusty ones behind.  Diana and April, however, were not depressed by this spectacle, for
to the former, in her position of free-lance, all men looked interesting and all women superfluous;
while April, in full possession of the beautifully appointed stateroom on the promenade deck,
to which she had retired directly after lunch, was too busy reviewing the position to think
about fellow-passengers just then.  She was bothered over the business of sitting at the Captain's
table.  She had seen him on the boat deck as she came aboard, and her heart failed her at the
thought of deceiving such a genial, kindly-looking man.  It was plain that the experiment of
"taking people in" was not going to be so pricelessly funny as she had anticipated.  She said
so to Diana, who came to her cabin as soon as the ship started to make a selection of clothes.
But Diana would listen to none of her virtuous backslidings.

"You can't back out now," she said firmly.  "A bargain's a bargain, and I've told everyone
I am April Poole, going to Africa to be a governess, and all the ship knows you are Lady Diana
Vernilands.  We should be a spectacle for the gods if we change back now.  No one would believe
us, either.  We'd only be looked upon with suspicion for the rest of the voyage, and all our
fun and pleasure spoilt.  For goodness's sake don't be an idiot!"

That was all the slightly conscience-stricken April got for her pains, and Diana stalked off
triumphant, lugging a suit-case and an armful of wraps.  April heard her explaining to a stewardess
in the corridor that her baggage had got mixed up with Lady Diana Verniland's, and that it
was very awkward; and then she saw and heard no more of her for several days. For immediately
on emerging from the Solent the Clarendon ran into very heavy weather, which continued until
the Bay of Biscay was passed, keeping all but the hardiest travellers confined to their cabins.
April, who was among the victims, had plenty of solitary leisure in which to repent her misdeed
if she felt so inclined.  But the impulse to repent soon passed, and workaday wisdom reassured
her that what she and Diana were doing was really very harmless and of no consequence to any
one but themselves.  No very great effort was required to make the best of the situation and
enjoy it as much as Diana had evidently determined to do. It was very pleasant, after all,
to be waited on and fussed about as though she were a person of infinite importance instead
of a shabby, trim governess.  She, who had padded the bumps of life for others so long, could
now thoroughly appreciate having the same service performed for herself.

Being of a nature neither arrogant nor impatient, she soon endeared herself to the stewardesses
and serving-people, who, having some experience in the tempers and tantrums of fine ladies,
were agreeably surprised by her gentle and charming manner, and could not do enough for her
in return.

After the first few days of frightful illness she began to feel better, and was able to be
moved from her cabin to the ladies' lounge.  Wrapped in one or other of Diana's ravishing boudoir
garments of silk and fur, she was supported there every morning, ensconced on the most luxurious
sofa, and surrounded by attentions from the other semi-invalids.  Nothing was too good for
the peer's delightful daughter, and everyone behaved as if she were an angel dropped from heaven.
In fact, with the lovely spirituelle air her illness had given, and the sea bloom just beginning
to tint her cheeks again and dew her eyes, she looked rather like one.

The ship's doctor, who was young and susceptible, broke it gently to such of the male passengers
who were able to bear the strain that a dazzling joy awaited their eyes when "Lady Diana" should
be well enough to appear in public.  The story of her charming looks and ways circulated softly
round the boat, even as a pleasant wine circulates in the veins.

April knew nothing of these things.  She only felt very happy in the kindness of everybody,
in the gradual steadying of the ship, now emerging from the troubled Bay into smoother, warmer
waters, and in the prospect of soon being allowed to go on deck.  Sometimes she wondered why
the real Diana gave no sign, but came to the conclusion that she, too, had been ill.

It was a natural enough thing to ask the doctor, when they were alone one day, if Miss Poole
was among his patients.  He seemed sufficiently astonished by the query.

"Miss Poole!" he echoed.  "Oh, no; she's not ill--far from it.  Do you know her?"

"Certainly I know her," smiled April, astonished in her turn.  "I was wondering why she had
not been to see me."

The doctor murmured something cryptic about her having "no doubt been too busy," and seemed
to have nothing further to say.  The face of the lounge stewardess wore a peculiar expression.
A quiet, rather austere-looking woman, she always behaved like a mummy in the doctor's presence,
standing behind him with folded hands and mute lips.  But when he had gone she came to life.

"Do you mean the young lady whose baggage got mixed with yours at the beginning of the voyage,
my lady?" she asked.  April remembered the necessity to walk delicately.

"Yes . . . a pretty, fair girl," she said cautiously.  "Very gay and bright."

"Very," agreed the stewardess laconically.  Then the source of her eloquence dried up even
as the doctor's had done.  April began to think it was time to go on deck and see what was doing.

The next day was not only gloriously fine, but the ship came to harbour by that island which
is as a bouquet of fruit and flowers pinned to a jagged breast.  There seems always something
sinister lurking behind the wreathed and radiant beauty of Madeira; but to those who come in
ships from out the bitter fogs of England she is a siren with a blue and golden smile, and
her gift-laden hands are soothing and serene.

April, lying in her deck-chair, thought she had come to fairyland. Escorted upstairs by the
doctor and a retinue of stewardesses, she was installed in a sheltered corner that commanded
the whole brilliant scene. The purser found her the most comfortable of chairs, the first officer
brought her a bamboo table from his cabin for her books, the Captain stayed awhile from his
duties to congratulate her on her recovery, and several men loitered near at hand casting reverently
admiring glances. But she had eyes for nothing save the vivid scene before her.  The smiling
island, with its head in the mists and its feet in a sapphire sea still as a painted lake;
boats full of flowers, corals, ivories, silken embroideries and unknown fruits; the burnished
bodies of diving boys; the odour of spices and sandalwood; the clatter of strange tongues;
the dark faces and bright clothes of the invading crowds of natives.

It was a spectacle to enchant the senses.  She could not think why so many passengers were
scurrying to and fro anxious to be taken ashore.  It seemed as foolish as to try to get into
a picture instead of sitting before it.

Everyone was wearing light clothes, for summer had come at full bound, and soon they would
be in the tropics.  There were beautifully cut white linen suits, smart skirts, and filmy blouses.
A popular saying on the Cape mail-boats is that passengers to South Africa are all clothes
and no money, while passengers returning are all money and no clothes.  April did not know
the epigram, nor the truth of it.  But she could plainly perceive that in the scanty kit of
April Poole she would have been very much out of the running among this smart and jaunty crowd.

As it was, clad in a sleek silken muslin of lovely lines, snowy shoes and stockings, and a
rose-laden hat, she could hold her own with any one.  A longing filled her to see Diana Vernilands.
She wanted to talk to her, exchange confidences, thank her, bless her, and, above all, to find
out what it was she found so attractive in her side of the game.  What on earth could it be
that was so much more ravishing than to be at peace with the world, respected by it, liked
by it, and yet independent of it? To wear lovely clothes in which you could enjoy the knowledge
of looking charming without meeting suspicion in the eyes of women and the "good-hunting" glance
in the eyes of men.  This last constituted, indeed, that "subtle reason" at which she had hinted
to Diana.  Life had harried April too much for her few years.  Obliged to travel its highways
alone and unprotected, some of the adventures encountered there had cut her to the quick. 
While women looked askance at her, men looked too hard, and too long.  Doubtless she had met
the wrong kind.  Lonely young girls without money or connections do not always find the knightly
and chivalrous gentlemen of their dreams!  Naturally pure-hearted and high-minded, she had
asked nothing of those she did meet save respect and good-comradeship; but either she was too
pretty or peculiarly unfortunate, for she had seldom been offered either.  It was something,
perhaps, that she still kept dreams, and a belief that there were knightly and chivalrous men
somewhere in the world, though they might not be for her.

She was still, like Omar, wondering "What the vinters buy one half so precious as the stuff
they sell"--lost in cogitations about Diana, when the subject of her thoughts, accompanied
by three men, came down a companion-way from an upper deck.  They were evidently set for the
shore, and making their way to the ship's side as if certain that the best places in the best
boats were preserved for them.

Diana's appearance betrayed the lack of a maid.  Her dress was crumpled, her shoes badly laced,
and her hat cocked carelessly upon her head. There was big houses and buildings of brick setting on
the high land above the river when I first see it, not like she know it when the Perrymans come
here years ago.

She heard the Indians talk about the old fort (1824),
the one that rot down long before the Civil War.  Her companions appeared to have
been picked for their good looks, sleek heads, and immaculate clothes.  One, with whom she
palpably stood on the happiest of terms, was, in fact, strikingly handsome.  The other two,
loitering in her wake, seemed content if she tossed them a word over her shoulder from time
to time.  They all behaved as if they had bought the ship, and found the presence of the rest
of the passengers an impertinence.  Such of the latter as were still on board returned the
compliment according to sex and the ability that was theirs.  The men plainly admired Diana's
nerve, while wondering with their eyebrows what on earth she could see in those three footling
fellows.  The women looked pityingly at the men, and with their noses indicated that Diana
was some kind of dangerous and unpleasant animal escaped from a menagerie.  A lady who had
seated herself by April in a chair labelled "Major Sarle," curled her lip at the passing group
in a manner painfully familiar to her neighbour.  Presently, when they were left alone, the
rest of the world having disappeared down the ship's side, she addressed April, but with a
very different expression on her face.

"You are Lady Diana Vernilands, I think?" she said, smiling in a friendly manner.  "I am Mrs.
Stanislaw.  So glad to see you up."

April was instantly on the alert.  Not only did she know the name of Mrs. Lionel Stanislaw,
but had very good cause to remember it as that of the lady with whom she was to have shared
a cabin.  The smiling face had once been a pretty one, but the tide of youth was fast receding,
leaving uncovered a bleak and barren shore, whose chief salients were a disdainful nose and
a mouth which looked as if it might be able to say bitter things.  The eyes, however, were
still handsome, if supercilious, and her manners velvety.  No doubt there were claws beneath
the velvet, but they were not for April . . . only for the girl who was using April's name!
They had not talked for five minutes before she realized that in this woman Diana had an enemy.
Not that Mrs. Stanislaw's words were censorious.  She was too clever for that.  Her remarks
were merely deprecative and full of pity.

"A most amazing creature," she said gently, "but rather disturbing to live with.  I confess
I wish I had been cribbed and cabined with someone who had more conventional manners and kept
earlier hours."

Here was something for April to ponder.

"She is very young," she faltered at length, and was unwise enough to add, "and pretty."

These being two heinous offences in the eyes of Mrs. Stanislaw, she proceeded at once to hang,
draw, and quarter the criminal.  But her voice was tenderer than before.

"Yes, isn't it a pity? . . . and so foolishly indiscreet.  Do you know, they tell me that she
is spoken of by all the men on the ship as the April Fool, a parody on her name, which is April
Poole."

Pleasant hearing for her listener, who flushed scarlet.

"Can you imagine any one who has a living to earn being so unwise?  I find it difficult to
believe she is going to the Cape to teach someone's children.  I only hope that the story of
her indiscretions will not precede her, poor girl."

April was dumb.  Mrs. Stanislaw came to the conclusion that she was dull and rather lacking
in feminine sweetness, and after a while went away to bargain with a native for some embroideries.
She would have been delighted to know what a poisoned barb she had implanted and left quivering
in the side of the so-called Lady Diana.

