DAYS WITH THE GREAT POETS

KEATS

 [Painting by W. J. Neatby.   LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI.

A DAY WITH KEATS

About eight o'clock one morning in early summer, a young man may be
seen sauntering to and fro in the garden of Wentworth Place, Hampstead.
Wentworth Place consists of two houses only; in the first, John Keats is
established along with his friend Charles Armitage Brown. In other words,
he prefers death and murder due to ambition, to abstinence and wisdom.

According
to Gervinus, Shakespeare believes that humanity need not set up ideals,
but that only healthy activity and the golden mean are necessary in everything.
 He gazes around him, with his weak dark
eyes, upon the sky, the flowers, the various minutiæ of nature which
mean so much to him: and although he has severely tried a never robust
physique by sitting up half the night in study, a new exhilaration now
throbs through his veins.
  Nor do we merely feel these essences
  For one short hour; no, even as the trees
  That whisper round a temple become soon
  Dear as the temple's self, so does the moon,
  The passion poesy, glories infinite,
  Haunt us till they become a cheering light
  Unto our souls, and bound to us so fast,
  That, whether there be shine, or gloom o'ercast,
  They alway must be with us, or we die.
                                        Endymion.

Yet John Keats is in some respects out of keeping with the magnificent phraseology of which
he is the mouthpiece. "Little Keats," as his fellow medical students termed him, is a small,
undersized man, not over five feet high--the shoulders too broad, the legs too spare--"death
in his hand," as Coleridge said, the slack moist hand of the incipient consumptive. The only
"thing of beauty" about him is his face. "It is a face," to quote his friend Leigh Hunt, "in
which energy and sensibility" There is that femininity in the cast of his features, which Coleridge
classed as an attribute of true genius. His beautiful brown hair falls loosely over those eyes,
large, dark, glowing, which appeal to all observers by their mystical illumination of rapture--eyes
which seem as though they had been dwelling on some glorious sight--which have, as Haydon said,
"an inward look perfectly divine, like a Delphian priestess who saw visions."

And he is seeing visions all the while. Some chance sight or sound has wrapt him away from
the young greenness of the May morning, and plunged him deep into the opulent colour of September.
His prophetic eye sees all the apple-buds as golden orbs of fruit, and the swallows, that now
build beneath the eaves, making ready for their departure. And these future splendours shape
themselves into lines as richly coloured.

 [Painting by W. J. Neatby.          AUTUMN.
      Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
  Conspiring with him how to load and bless
      With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run;
  To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees,
      And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;
  To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells
      With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,
  And still more, later flowers for the bees,
  Until they think warm days will never cease,
      For Summer has o'er-brimmed their clammy cells.

  Who hath not seen thee oft amid thy store?
      Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find
  Thee sitting careless on a granary floor,
      Thy hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind;
  Or on a half-reap'd furrow sound asleep,
      Drowsed with the fume of poppies, while thy hook
          Spares the next swath and all its twined flowers;
  And sometimes like a gleaner thou dost keep
      Steady thy laden head across a brook;
      Or by a cider-press, with patient look,
          Thou watchest the last oozings, hours by hours.
        And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.
                                           Autumn.

The voice of Charles Brown at the open window, hailing him cheerily, breaks the spell; Keats
goes in, and they sit down together to a simple breakfast-table, and Brown "quizzes" Keats,
as the current phrase goes, on his inveterate abstractedness. The young man, with his sweet
and merry laugh, defends himself by producing the result of his last-night's meditations, in
praise of the selfsame wandering fancy.

  Ever let the Fancy roam,
  Pleasure never is at home:
  At a touch sweet Pleasure melteth,
  Like to bubbles when rain pelteth;
  Then let wingèd Fancy wander
  Through the thought still spread beyond her:
  Open wide the mind's cage door,
  She'll dart forth, and cloudward soar.
  O, sweet Fancy! let her loose;
  Summer's joys are spoilt by use,
  And the enjoying of the Spring
  Fades as does its blossoming:
  Autumn's red-lipp'd fruitage too,
  Blushing through the mist and dew,
  Cloys with tasting: What do then?
  Sit thee by the ingle, when
  The sear faggot blazes bright,
  Spirit of a winter's night;
  When the soundless earth is muffled,
  And the caked snow is shuffled
  From the ploughboy's heavy shoon....
  Fancy, high-commission'd:--send her!
  She has vassals to attend her:
  She will bring, in spite of frost,
  Beauties that the earth hath lost;
  She will bring thee, all together,
  All delights of summer weather;
  All the buds and bells of May,
  From dewy sward or thorny spray;
  All the heapèd Autumn's wealth,
  With a still, mysterious stealth:
  She will mix these pleasures up,
  Like three fit wines in a cup,
  And thou shalt quaff it....
                            Fancy.

Breakfast over, the business of the day begins: and that, with Keats, is
poetry, and all that can foster poetic stimulus. He takes no real heed
of anything else. A devoted son and brother, one ready to sacrifice
himself and his slender resources to the uttermost farthing for his
mother, brothers, sister and friends--yet he has no vital interest in
other folks' affairs, nor in current events, nor in ordinary social
topics. Other people's poetry does not appeal to him, except that of
Shakespeare, and of Homer--whom he does not know in the original, but
who, through the poor medium of translation, has filled his soul with
Grecian fantasies.
                                     Sonnet.

This is what he wrote after sitting up one night till daybreak with his
friend Cowden Clarke, shouting with delight over the vistas newly
revealed to him. And from that time on, he has luxuriated in dreams of
classic beauty, warmed to new life by the sorcery of Romance. No stir of air was there,
  Not so much life as on a summer's day
  Robs not one light seed from the feather'd grass,
  But where the dead leaf fell, there did it rest.
  A stream went voiceless by, still deadened more
  By reason of his fallen divinity
  Spreading a shade: the Naiad 'mid her reeds
  Press'd her cold finger closer to her lips.
                                Hyperion.

He is studying French, Latin, and especially Italian--all with a view of furthering his poetic
ability: though no great reader, he has soaked himself in the atmosphere of old Italian tales,
and the very spirit of mediæval Florence breathes from the story, borrowed from Boccaccio,
"an echo in the north-wind sung," which narrates how the hapless Isabelle bid away the head
of her murdered lover.

  [Painting by W. J. Neatby.    ISABELLA.

  And she forgot the stars, the moon, the sun,
    And she forgot the blue above the trees,
  And she forgot the dells where waters run,
    And she forgot the chilly autumn breeze;
  She had no knowledge when the day was done,
    And the new moon she saw not: but in peace
  Hung over her sweet Basil evermore,
  And moisten'd it with tears unto the core.]

       *       *       *       *       *

  Then in a silken scarf,--sweet with the dews
    Of precious flowers pluck'd in Araby,
  And divine liquids come with odorous ooze
    Through the cold serpent-pipe refreshfully,--
  She wrapp'd it up; and for its tomb did choose
    A garden pot, wherein she laid it by,
  And covered it with mould, and o'er it set
  Sweet Basil, which her tears kept ever wet.
                                   Isabella.

Keats has brought himself with difficulty, however, to the perusal of modern poets. His boyish
enthusiasm for Leigh Hunt's work has long since evaporated: and after reading Shelley's Revolt
of Islam, all he has found to say is, "Poor Shelley, I think he has his quota of good qualities!"
But, for the rest, he is not attracted to any kind of knowledge which cannot be "made applicable
and subservient to the purposes of poetry,"--his own poetry. The interest of the public further increases, and the organs of the
press, competing with one another, satisfy the public demand.

The public is still more interested; the press attributes yet more significance to the event. So that
the importance of the event, continually growing, like a lump of snow, receives an appreciation
utterly inappropriate to its real significance, and this appreciation, often exaggerated to insanity,
is retained so long as the conception of life of the leaders of the press and of the public remains
the same. John Keats cannot stay indoors this fine May morning, "fitting himself for verses fit
to live," when the girl who is to him the incarnation of all poetry is visible in the next-door
garden. He throws down his pen and hurries out to join her.

Contemporary portraits of Fanny Brawne have not succeeded in representing her as beautiful:
and at first sight Keats has complained, that, although she "manages to make her hair look
well," she "wants sentiment in every feature." Propinquity, however, has achieved the usual
result; and now the young poet believes his inamorata to be the very apotheosis of loveliness:
he is never weary of adoring her

  Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast,
  Warm breath, light whisper, tender semitone,
  Bright eyes, accomplished shape!

If the truth be told, Fanny Brawne is a fairly good-looking young woman, blue-eyed and long-nosed,
her hair arranged with curls and ribbons over her brow: she has a curious but striking resemblance
to the draped figure in Titian's "Sacred and Profane Love": and for the rest, she is by no
means poetic or sentimental, but a voluminous reader, whose strong point is an extraordinary
knowledge of the history of costume. She accepts the homage of Keats, much as she accepts the
fact of their tacit betrothal, and the fact that her mother disapproves of it--without taking
it too seriously in any sense. And now, though not particularly keen on open-air enjoyment,
she accepts his daily suggestion of a walk with her; and they go out into the beautiful meadows
which were part of Hampstead a hundred years ago. Peculiarly sensitive, as he is, to external
influences, his chief delight is to "think of green fields ... I muse with the greatest affection
on every flower I have known from my infancy." The man who is so soon to "feel the daisies
growing over him," takes one of his intensest pleasures in watching the growth of flowers;
and now, as an exquisite music, "notes that pierce and pierce," descends through the young
green oak-leaves, the poet seizes this golden moment of the May world and transmutes it into song.

  O, for a draught of vintage, that hath been
    Cool'd a long age in the deep-delvèd earth,
  Tasting of Flora and the country-green,
    Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth!
  Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well
    As she is famed to do, deceiving elf.
  Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades
    Past the near meadows, over the still stream,
      Up the hill-side; and now 'tis buried deep
        In the next valley-glades:
  Was it a vision, or a waking dream?
    Fled is that music:--do I wake or sleep?
                           Ode to a Nightingale.

  [Painting by W. J. Neatby.   THE NIGHTINGALE.

  Thou, light-wingèd Dryad of the trees,
    In some melodious plot
  Of beechen green, and shadows numberless,
    Singest of summer in full-throated ease.]

The poet is recalled from these rapturous flights to the fugitive
sweetness of the present: he is wandering in May meadows, young and
impetuous, on fire with hopes, and his heart's beloved beside him. It is
almost too good to be true. "I have never known any unalloyed happiness
for many days together," he tells Fanny; "the death or sickness of
someone has always spoilt my home. I almost wish we were butterflies,
and lived but three summer days--three such days with you I could fill
with more delight than fifty common years could ever contain." He talks
to her earnestly of his dreams, his aspirations, his ambitions: and then
the sordid facts of every-day life begin to cast a blighting shadow over
his effulgent hopes. What has he, indeed, to offer, worth her taking? A
young man of twenty-three, ex-dresser at a hospital, who has abandoned
his surgical career without adopting any other: with slender resources,
and no occupation beyond that of producing verses which are held up to
absolute derision by the great reviews. "I would willingly have recourse
to other means," he tells her again, as he has told his friend Dilke, "I
cannot: I am fit for nothing else but literature." He talks of taking up
journalism--but in his heart he feels unfit for any regular profession,
by reason both of physical weakness and a certain lack of system in mental
work. The future becomes blackly, blankly overcast; the res augusta
domi descend like a curtain between the sublimity of Keats and the calm
commonsense of Fanny. They turn homewards in silence, the poet revolving
melancholy musings.
                               Ode to Melancholy.

Fanny Brawne enters her mother's house, and John Keats goes into his room and sits down, brooding,
brooding. "O," he says, "that something fortunate had ever happened to me or my brothers! Then
I might hope--but despair is forced upon me as a habit." And he is only too well aware, that
although he is naturally "the very soul of courage and manliness," this habit of despair is
growing upon him, and eating his energy away. A wintry chill settles down upon the May-time,
and his misery finds vent in lovely lines--

  In a drear-nighted December,
          Too happy, happy tree,
  Thy branches ne'er remember
          Their green felicity:
      The north cannot undo them,
      With a sleety whistle through them;
      Nor frozen thawings glue them
          From budding at the prime.

  In a drear-nighted December,
          Too happy, happy brook,
  Thy bubblings ne'er remember
          Apollo's summer look;
      But with a sweet forgetting,
      They stay their crystal fretting,
      Never, never petting
          About the frozen time.

  Ah! would 'twere so with many
      A gentle girl and boy!
  But were there ever any
      Writh'd not at passed joy?
      To know the change and feel it,
      When there is none to heal it,
      Nor numbed sense to steal it,
          Was never said in rhyme.

  [Painting by W. J. Neatby.   ENDYMION.

  As she spake, into her face there came
  Light, as reflected from a silver flame,
  ... In her eyes a brighter day
  Dawn'd blue and full of love.]

Yet Keats is young, and youth means buoyancy. With an effort--increasingly difficult--he is
able to shake off this sombre fit for awhile; and he makes use of the simplest means to that
end. These very prosaic methods adopted, he abandons himself to the full flood of inspiration,
and lets his mind suffuse itself in antique glory. As Endymion, he receives the divine commands
of the passionately bright Moon-Lady, as she stoops at last to bless him.

  And as she spake, into her face there came
  Light, as reflected from a silver flame:
  Her long black hair swelled ample, in display
  Full golden: in her eyes a brighter day
  Dawn'd blue and full of love.
                               Endymion.

Or, as Lycius, he succumbs to the serpentine grace of Lamia; or as
Porphyro, hidden in the silence, watches Madeline at prayer.
                                         Eve of St. Agnes.

But the inspiration does not well up to-day: its flow is frustrated, in view of the mountainous
difficulties which hedge him in. Ill-health, stinted means, hopeless love, and continual lack
of success--these are calculated to give the bravest pause. And presently Keats, snatching
a few hurried mouthfuls of lunch, is off to the studio of his friend, the painter Haydon--the
one man among all his acquaintance who is capable of really understanding him. He sits down
morbid and silent in the painting room: for a while nothing will evoke a word from him, good
or bad. But his keen interest in matters of art, and the entry of various friends one by one--Wentworth
Dilke, Hamilton Reynolds, Bailey and Leigh Hunt--soon arouse him to animated conversation.
Keats is shy and ill at ease in women's society: but a "delightful combination of earnestness
and pleasantry distinguishes his intercourse with men." He says fine things finely, jokes with
ready humour, and at the mention of any oppression or wrong rises "into grave manliness at
once, seeming like a tall man." No wonder that his society is much sought after, and himself
greatly beloved by these congenial spirits; no wonder that here, at least, he meets with that
appreciation of which elsewhere his genius has been starved. In this young fellow of twenty-three,
who unites winning, affectionate ways, and habitual gentleness of manner, with the loftiest
and most nobly-worded ideals, few would discover that imaginary "Johnny Keats, the apothecary's
assistant," upon whom the Blackwood reviewer had lavished such vials of vituperation. (Matthew
Arnold). But only these few friends of his are able to recognise that perfection. Outside their
charmed circle, lies an obstinately unappreciative world.

The afternoon wears on, and the friends disperse. Keats, returning to Wentworth Place flushed
with hectic exhilaration, finds a veritable douche of cold water awaiting him, in the shape
of a letter from his publishers. They refer to his unlucky first volume of poems, brought out
in 1817.

For a few minutes the pendulum swings back to despair. A man whose whole business in life is
the creation of the best work, who "never wrote a line of poetry with the least shadow of public
thought," who believes that after his death he will be among the English poets, and that if
he only has time now, he will make himself remembered--that such a one should be merely the
butt and laughing-stock of his readers! It is an unendurable position. Not that Keats attaches
undue importance to popular applause.

But what will Fanny think of such a letter? He falls to miserable
meditation over the slings and arrows of outrageous Fortune, and the
constant erection of new obstacles in the course of his luckless love.
And of Fanny's love he always has had a smouldering doubt: yet he
remains her vassal, from the first, as he has told her--irrevocably her
slave. He conceives himself an outcast on the wintry hillside, exiled
from all his heart's desires.
                 La Belle Dame sans merci.

And now he hears the voice of his Belle Dame ringing light across the garden; while he sits
here, a prey to every distress, she is gaily gossiping with her next-door neighbour Brown.
At once the unhappy Keats is tormented by a thousand jealous fears. Fanny is transferring her
affection to Brown: of that he is quite certain. He rushes out: his black looks banish the
much-amused Brown, and very nearly produce an immediate rupture between Fanny and himself.
But after a few bitter words, he permits himself to be reassured--or is it cajoled?--and tells
her, "I must confess that I love you the more, in that I believe you have liked me for my own
sake and for nothing else." The poor boy, from a worldly point of view, has "nothing else"
to offer.

The lovers' quarrel is over for the nonce. Visitors begin to drop in for the evening; there
is music and singing in Brown's little drawing room. Keats is very fond of music, and can himself,
though possessing hardly any voice, "produce a pleasing musical effect." He will sit and listen
for hours to a sympathetic performer: but his ear, like all his faculties, is abnormally sensitive:
and a wrong note will drive him into a frenzy. As the room grows fuller, he becomes restive.
"The poetical character," he has observed, "is not itself--it has no character. When I am in
a room with people, the identity of everyone in the room begins to press upon me so that I
am in a little time annihilated."

In the light chit-chat of small talk and badinage he has no part: it bewilders and annoys him.
Those about him--especially the women--seem to show up in their worst colours. Fanny herself
appears, as he has described her at their first meeting, an absolute minx. And presently he
contrives to slip stealthily away, and seats himself in some quiet chamber, alone with the
darkness and the May-scents of leaf and blossom. I do not live in this world alone, but in
a thousand worlds. No sooner am I alone, than shapes of epic greatness are stationed round
me, and serve my spirit the office which is equivalent to a King's Bodyguard."

The young man now lights his candles, and takes up a familiar and
favourite occupation;--the writing of a long letter to his brother
George in America. "Hearing a loud knocking at Mohammed's gate again,
I hurried to see who the important comer was. There stood a man of confident
mien, who proudly answered that his name was Hussein Effendi.

"'And
your father's name?' asked the keeper. He dwells on
the adroit management of open and close vowels--he shows how "the poetry
of earth is never dead;" he discusses the need of constant application
to work, and how "the genius of poetry must work out its own salvation
in a man." And meanwhile, as fitful strains of song reach him from the
distance, and his roving gaze rivets itself upon a Wedgwood copy of a
Grecian vase--one of Brown's chief treasures--the fleeting wafts of
sound, and the lovely symmetry of shape, and the golden chain of
figures, blend themselves into one harmonious whole of word-music.
                              Ode to a Grecian Urn.

The "shapes of epic greatness" throng closer and mightier around him. The storm and stress
of the day's thoughts have utterly drained his small reserve of strength. Outworn by the vehemence
of his own conflicting emotions, John Keats lays his aching eyes and dark brown head upon his
arm as it rests along the table, and sinks into a dreamless slumber of exhaustion; while, a

 "Happy melodist, unwearied,
  For ever singing songs for ever new,"

the nightingale chants on outside.

