Miles Hendon was picturesque enough before he got into the riot on London Bridge--he was more
so when he got out of it.  He had but little money when he got in, none at all when he got
out.  The pickpockets had stripped him of his last farthing.

But no matter, so he found his boy.  Being a soldier, he did not go at his task in a random
way, but set to work, first of all, to arrange his campaign.

What would the boy naturally do?  Where would he naturally go? Well --argued Miles--he would
naturally go to his former haunts, for that is the instinct of unsound minds, when homeless
and forsaken, as well as of sound ones.  Whereabouts were his former haunts?  His rags, taken
together with the low villain who seemed to know him and who even claimed to be his father,
indicated that his home was in one or another of the poorest and meanest districts of London.
Would the search for him be difficult, or long?  No, it was likely to be easy and brief. 

Yes sir.

Well, I do not mean anything.

But V. and he said he came down .........

It is clear that if there is no triangle, you can not lose, but then
there is no vertex angle edge, or hypotenuse, or anything, but when
I say get off the perpendicular, always assume the triangle.

And it is clear that this triangle can be constructed, the assumption is not explicit; understood
it.

I understand this, but then go down the perpendicular to that triangle
solo, and V. I speaks as if it came down at all.

The triangle is constructed for an example, and what we did with him,
it is clear that we could do it all.

With everyone?

Yes sir, "they can not conceive V. that in any right triangle can
download a perpendicular the right angle to the hypotenuse?

I represent here in this: but as this is in my head, there are triangles, then I represent
some with sides of thousands of rods, and I have nothing big head
.....

But this is not what is V. in his head, but the triangles themselves
....

But as these triangles do not exist, nothing I can say about
them .....

But at least do the can there be?

Who could doubt it?

Well, if any, large or small, in one position or another, in one part
or another, Is not it true that you could drop a perpendicular from
the apex of the right angle to the hypotenuse?

Is clear.

But I do not mean something else but in any right triangle whatever was can download this perpendicular.

But
it is understood that V. not talking about those who are not ..... Is not it?

I speak for all of which are and which are not.

Already seen that the perpendicular it can not be disposed of in a triangle that does not exist.
What is not there is nothing. But what may exist there, and I see clearly that if there will verify
what I say.

So I can talk, and talk about all of the existing and not existing,
without exception.

The reader will judge whether to bother the poor mathematical difficulties of the importunate
crafty making the rough, we did not respond as anyone would respond not was prevented by any
metaphysical idea, and it is clear that these responses would accept
as reasonable, as satisfactory as the only ones that can occur in
this case, all mathematicians around the world.

Well, in these answers and explanations is what we have said, all science based a postulate:
all reason to demonstrate even the most essential properties and relationships of things, part
of the assumption of its existence.

CHAPTER VIII.
THE BASIS OF THE POSSIBILITY PURA AND THE STATUS OF STOCK.

[53.]
I said that the basis of pure possibility of things, and their properties
and relationships, was the essence of God, that is the reason of all
(v. L. IV from Ch. XXIII to XXVII), and at first sight it might seem
that science is enough to that foundation, and does not need to rely
on the condition of the existence of things.

For if the essences
are represented in God, is in the divine essence in order of science
and therefore is not conclusive the argument based on that from nothing,
not can say anything. Assuming the same figure, the science does not
deal with a pure nothing but a very real thing, and therefore has
an object to the very positive view, even when dispensing with the
reality of the thing considered.

Let's see how we can dispel this
difficulty.

[54.] Necessary relations of things, regardless of its
existence, must have reason enough: this can only be found in need.  He answereth the description to a rag--that God
should make two such would be to cheapen miracles by wasteful repetition.  I would I could
contrive an excuse to speak with him."

Miles Hendon saved him the trouble; for he turned about, then, as a man generally will when
somebody mesmerises him by gazing hard at him from behind; and observing a strong interest
in the boy's eyes, he stepped toward him and said--

"You have just come out from the palace; do you belong there?"

"Yes, your worship."

"Know you Sir Humphrey Marlow?"

The boy started, and said to himself, "Lord! mine old departed father!" Then he answered aloud,
"Right well, your worship."

"Good--is he within?"

"Yes," said the boy; and added, to himself, "within his grave."

"Might I crave your favour to carry my name to him, and say I beg to say a word in his ear?"

"I will despatch the business right willingly, fair sir."

"Then say Miles Hendon, son of Sir Richard, is here without--I shall be greatly bounden to
you, my good lad."

The boy looked disappointed.  "The King did not name him so," he said to himself; "but it mattereth
not, this is his twin brother, and can give his Majesty news of t'other Sir-Odds-and-Ends,
I warrant."  So he said to Miles, "Step in there a moment, good sir, and wait till I bring
you word."

Hendon retired to the place indicated--it was a recess sunk in the palace wall, with a stone
bench in it--a shelter for sentinels in bad weather. He had hardly seated himself when some
halberdiers, in charge of an officer, passed by.  The officer saw him, halted his men, and
commanded Hendon to come forth.  He obeyed, and was promptly arrested as a suspicious character
prowling within the precincts of the palace.  Things began to look ugly.  Poor Miles was going
to explain, but the officer roughly silenced him, and ordered his men to disarm him and search him.

"God of his mercy grant that they find somewhat," said poor Miles; "I have searched enow, and
failed, yet is my need greater than theirs."

Nothing was found but a document.  The officer tore it open, and Hendon smiled when he recognised
the 'pot-hooks' made by his lost little friend that black day at Hendon Hall.  The officer's
face grew dark as he read the English paragraph, and Miles blenched to the opposite colour
as he listened.

"Another new claimant of the Crown!" cried the officer.  "Verily they breed like rabbits, to-day.
Seize the rascal, men, and see ye keep him fast whilst I convey this precious paper within
and send it to the King."

He hurried away, leaving the prisoner in the grip of the halberdiers.

"Now is my evil luck ended at last," muttered Hendon, "for I shall dangle at a rope's end for
a certainty, by reason of that bit of writing.  And what will become of my poor lad!--ah, only
the good God knoweth."

By-and-by he saw the officer coming again, in a great hurry; so he plucked his courage together,
purposing to meet his trouble as became a man.  The officer ordered the men to loose the prisoner
and return his sword to him; then bowed respectfully, and said--

"Please you, sir, to follow me."

Hendon followed, saying to himself, "An' I were not travelling to death and judgment, and so
must needs economise in sin, I would throttle this knave for his mock courtesy."

The two traversed a populous court, and arrived at the grand entrance of the palace, where
the officer, with another bow, delivered Hendon into the hands of a gorgeous official, who
received him with profound respect and led him forward through a great hall, lined on both
sides with rows of splendid flunkeys (who made reverential obeisance as the two passed along,
but fell into death-throes of silent laughter at our stately scarecrow the moment his back
was turned), and up a broad staircase, among flocks of fine folk, and finally conducted him
into a vast room, clove a passage for him through the assembled nobility of England, then made
a bow, reminded him to take his hat off, and left him standing in the middle of the room, a
mark for all eyes, for plenty of indignant frowns, and for a sufficiency of amused and derisive
smiles.

Miles Hendon was entirely bewildered.  There sat the young King, under a canopy of state, five
steps away, with his head bent down and aside, speaking with a sort of human bird of paradise--a
duke, maybe.  Hendon observed to himself that it was hard enough to be sentenced to death in
the full vigour of life, without having this peculiarly public humiliation added.  He wished
the King would hurry about it--some of the gaudy people near by were becoming pretty offensive.
At this moment the King raised his head slightly, and Hendon caught a good view of his face.
The sight nearly took his breath away!--He stood gazing at the fair young face like one transfixed;
then presently ejaculated--

"Lo, the Lord of the Kingdom of Dreams and Shadows on his throne!"

He muttered some broken sentences, still gazing and marvelling; then turned his eyes around
and about, scanning the gorgeous throng and the splendid saloon, murmuring, "But these are
REAL--verily these are REAL --surely it is not a dream."

He stared at the King again--and thought, "IS it a dream . . . or IS he the veritable Sovereign
of England, and not the friendless poor Tom o' Bedlam I took him for--who shall solve me this
riddle?"

A sudden idea flashed in his eye, and he strode to the wall, gathered up a chair, brought it
back, planted it on the floor, and sat down in it!

A buzz of indignation broke out, a rough hand was laid upon him and a voice exclaimed--

"Up, thou mannerless clown! would'st sit in the presence of the King?"

The disturbance attracted his Majesty's attention, who stretched forth his hand and cried out--

"Touch him not, it is his right!"

The throng fell back, stupefied.  The King went on--

"Learn ye all, ladies, lords, and gentlemen, that this is my trusty and well-beloved servant,
Miles Hendon, who interposed his good sword and saved his prince from bodily harm and possible
death--and for this he is a knight, by the King's voice.  Also learn, that for a higher service,
in that he saved his sovereign stripes and shame, taking these upon himself, he is a peer of
England, Earl of Kent, and shall have gold and lands meet for the dignity.  More--the privilege
which he hath just exercised is his by royal grant; for we have ordained that the chiefs of
his line shall have and hold the right to sit in the presence of the Majesty of England henceforth,
age after age, so long as the crown shall endure.  Molest him not."

Two persons, who, through delay, had only arrived from the country during this morning, and
had now been in this room only five minutes, stood listening to these words and looking at
the King, then at the scarecrow, then at the King again, in a sort of torpid bewilderment.
These were Sir Hugh and the Lady Edith.  But the new Earl did not see them.  He was still staring
at the monarch, in a dazed way, and muttering--

"Oh, body o' me!  THIS my pauper!  This my lunatic!  This is he whom I would show what grandeur
was, in my house of seventy rooms and seven-and-twenty servants!  This is he who had never
known aught but rags for raiment, kicks for comfort, and offal for diet!  This is he whom I
adopted and would make respectable! Would God I had a bag to hide my head in!"

Then his manners suddenly came back to him, and he dropped upon his knees, with his hands between
the King's, and swore allegiance and did homage for his lands and titles.  Then he rose and
stood respectfully aside, a mark still for all eyes--and much envy, too.

Now the King discovered Sir Hugh, and spoke out with wrathful voice and kindling eye--

"Strip this robber of his false show and stolen estates, and put him under lock and key till
I have need of him."

The late Sir Hugh was led away.

There was a stir at the other end of the room, now; the assemblage fell apart, and Tom Canty,
quaintly but richly clothed, marched down, between these living walls, preceded by an usher.
He knelt before the King, who said--

"I have learned the story of these past few weeks, and am well pleased with thee.  Thou hast
governed the realm with right royal gentleness and mercy.  Thou hast found thy mother and thy
sisters again?  Good; they shall be cared for--and thy father shall hang, if thou desire it
and the law consent.  Know, all ye that hear my voice, that from this day, they that abide
in the shelter of Christ's Hospital and share the King's bounty shall have their minds and
hearts fed, as well as their baser parts; and this boy shall dwell there, and hold the chief
place in its honourable body of governors, during life.  And for that he hath been a king,
it is meet that other than common observance shall be his due; wherefore note this his dress
of state, for by it he shall be known, and none shall copy it; and wheresoever he shall come,
it shall remind the people that he hath been royal, in his time, and none shall deny him his
due of reverence or fail to give him salutation.  He hath the throne's protection, he hath
the crown's support, he shall be known and called by the honourable title of the King's Ward." Hastily took chocolate, and
having kissed Ms. Josefa with effusion, the nun alleged saved door and slid quickly down the street.
Ten minutes later came the P. Gil. Night was dark and wet. It had rained a lot.
 Justice and retribution.

When the mysteries were all cleared up, it came out, by confession of Hugh Hendon, that his
wife had repudiated Miles by his command, that day at Hendon Hall--a command assisted and supported
by the perfectly trustworthy promise that if she did not deny that he was Miles Hendon, and
stand firmly to it, he would have her life; whereupon she said, "Take it!"--she did not value
it--and she would not repudiate Miles; then the husband said he would spare her life but have
Miles assassinated!  This was a different matter; so she gave her word and kept it. Continued to show serious
and taciturn, even more than before. The young woman watched from the corner of the eye, and guessing
what was happening in his spirit, remained silent too, in a state of awe that give good indication
of their mystical thoughts.  Hugh deserted his wife and went over to the continent,
where he presently died; and by-and-by the Earl of Kent married his relict. There were grand
times and rejoicings at Hendon village when the couple paid their first visit to the Hall.

Tom Canty's father was never heard of again. The
King of the Low Countries in 1817 will replace the power sup a philosophical school, which
was not the taste the clergy, and this definitely restored the University in 1835 with the character
of free to competition to those of Liege and Ghent. He provided good homes for
the daughters of the two Baptist women whom he saw burned at the stake, and roundly punished
the official who laid the undeserved stripes upon Miles Hendon's back.

He saved from the gallows the boy who had captured the stray falcon, and also the woman who
had stolen a remnant of cloth from a weaver; but he was too late to save the man who had been
convicted of killing a deer in the royal forest.

He showed favour to the justice who had pitied him when he was supposed to have stolen a pig,
and he had the gratification of seeing him grow in the public esteem and become a great and
honoured man.

As long as the King lived he was fond of telling the story of his adventures, all through,
from the hour that the sentinel cuffed him away from the palace gate till the final midnight
when he deftly mixed himself into a gang of hurrying workmen and so slipped into the Abbey
and climbed up and hid himself in the Confessor's tomb, and then slept so long, next day, that
he came within one of missing the Coronation altogether.  He said that the frequent rehearsing
of the precious lesson kept him strong in his purpose to make its teachings yield benefits
to his people; and so, whilst his life was spared he should continue to tell the story, and
thus keep its sorrowful spectacles fresh in his memory and the springs of pity replenished
in his heart.

Miles Hendon and Tom Canty were favourites of the King, all through his brief reign, and his
sincere mourners when he died. The good Earl of Kent had too much sense to abuse his peculiar
privilege; but he exercised it twice after the instance we have seen of it before he was called
from this world--once at the accession of Queen Mary, and once at the accession of Queen Elizabeth.
A descendant of his exercised it at the accession of James I.  Before this one's son chose
to use the privilege, near a quarter of a century had elapsed, and the 'privilege of the Kents'
had faded out of most people's memories; so, when the Kent of that day appeared before Charles
I. and his court and sat down in the sovereign's presence to assert and perpetuate the right
of his house, there was a fine stir indeed!  But the matter was soon explained, and the right
confirmed.  The last Earl of the line fell in the wars of the Commonwealth fighting for the
King, and the odd privilege ended with him.

Tom Canty lived to be a very old man, a handsome, white-haired old fellow, of grave and benignant
aspect.  As long as he lasted he was honoured; and he was also reverenced, for his striking
and peculiar costume kept the people reminded that 'in his time he had been royal;' so, wherever
he appeared the crowd fell apart, making way for him, and whispering, one to another, "Doff
thy hat, it is the King's Ward!"--and so they saluted, and got his kindly smile in return--and
they valued it, too, for his was an honourable history.

Yes, King Edward VI. lived only a few years, poor boy, but he lived them worthily.  More than
once, when some great dignitary, some gilded vassal of the crown, made argument against his
leniency, and urged that some law which he was bent upon amending was gentle enough for its
purpose, and wrought no suffering or oppression which any one need mightily mind, the young
King turned the mournful eloquence of his great compassionate eyes upon him and answered--

"What dost THOU know of suffering and oppression? The first of these buildings, beautiful monument built in 1829 at the expense of the
city is the equivalent of the "Conservatoire of arts and crafts" of Paris. There are meeting in vast
rooms of several floors all objects that show the progress of industry nation, particularly notable
in the metallurgy and textiles. On the ground floor of the palace Library is real, rich and very
significant for its abundance of rare manuscripts, precious largely. Does not reduce its number of
19.000, the printed books exceeds 200,000, and the establishment is constantly enriched thanks
to the liberal government protection.

The museum building located a short distance away, contains three collections: the top the vast
gallery of paintings, composed of some 700 paintings, in the bottom, museums natural history
and mineralogy. The gallery, although very valuable for its variety and merit many of his paintings
contains only a small number of masterpieces of national art they are the best in Belgian churches
and cathedrals and museums of Antwerp and Ghent. The natural history museum is very rich, very
beautiful and one of the best conditioned I have visited in Europe.

The traveler who stops in Brussels should not miss visiting the palace of the Duke of "Aremberg" always
open to foreigners with exquisite condescension. There are, in Duke's library, a thousand treasures
of typography, sculpture and antiques, and a gallery about 150 paintings,
almost all of great merit, many of them delicate art thumbnails Flemish
and Dutch.

NOTE 4, Chapter VII.

NOTE 5, Chapter VIII. Attainder of Norfolk.

NOTE 6, Chapter X. The Loving-cup.

The loving-cup, and the peculiar ceremonies observed in drinking from it, are older than English
history.  It is thought that both are Danish importations.  As far back as knowledge goes,
the loving-cup has always been drunk at English banquets.  Tradition explains the ceremonies
in this way.  In the rude ancient times it was deemed a wise precaution to have both hands
of both drinkers employed, lest while the pledger pledged his love and fidelity to the pledgee,
the pledgee take that opportunity to slip a dirk into him!

NOTE 7, Chapter XI. The Duke of Norfolk's narrow Escape.

Had Henry VIII. survived a few hours longer, his order for the duke's execution would have
been carried into effect.

NOTE 8, Chapter XIV. The Whipping-boy.

James I. and Charles II. had whipping-boys, when they were little fellows, to take their punishment
for them when they fell short in their lessons; so I have ventured to furnish my small prince
with one, for my own purposes.

NOTES to Chapter XV.

Character of Hertford.

Boiling to Death.

In the reign of Henry VIII. poisoners were, by Act of Parliament, condemned to be BOILED TO
DEATH.  This Act was repealed in the following reign.

In Germany, even in the seventeenth century, this horrible punishment was inflicted on coiners
and counterfeiters.  Taylor, the Water Poet, describes an execution he witnessed in Hamburg
in 1616.  The judgment pronounced against a coiner of false money was that he should 'BE BOILED
TO DEATH IN OIL; not thrown into the vessel at once, but with a pulley or rope to be hanged
under the armpits, and then let down into the oil BY DEGREES; first the feet, and next the
legs, and so to boil his flesh from his bones alive.'--Dr. J. Hammond Trumbull's Blue Laws,
True and False, p. 13.

The Famous Stocking Case.

NOTE 10, Chapter XVII. Enslaving.

So young a King and so ignorant a peasant were likely to make mistakes; and this is an instance
in point.  This peasant was suffering from this law BY ANTICIPATION; the King was venting his
indignation against a law which was not yet in existence; for this hideous statute was to have
birth in this little King's OWN REIGN. It
took a while to engage the driver. The duration of the operation, the future got nun in the
sale. Fr Gil remained outside, presence. Both of them were the object of great curiosity for the hostess,
for their children, for the mayoral and the boy's car. I just removed the eye. The young priest
noted that a few glances exchanged between them and mocking expressive embarrassed him. Suddenly
saw the falsity of his situation, the great folly that had done.


The curious old book called The English Rogue makes the limit thirteen pence ha'penny:  death
being the portion of any who steal a thing 'above the value of thirteen pence ha'penny.'

NOTES to Chapter XXVII.

From many descriptions of larceny the law expressly took away the benefit of clergy:  to steal
a horse, or a HAWK, or woollen cloth from the weaver, was a hanging matter.

William Prynne, a learned barrister, was sentenced (long after Edward VI.'s time) to lose both
his ears in the pillory, to degradation from the bar, a fine of 3,000 pounds, and imprisonment
for life.  Three years afterwards he gave new offence to Laud by publishing a pamphlet against
the hierarchy.  He was again prosecuted, and was sentenced to lose WHAT REMAINED OF HIS EARS,
to pay a fine of 5,000 pounds, to be BRANDED ON BOTH HIS CHEEKS with the letters S. L. (for
Seditious Libeller), and to remain in prison for life.  The severity of this sentence was equalled
by the savage rigour of its execution.--Ibid. p. 12.

NOTES to Chapter XXXIII.

Christ's Hospital, or Bluecoat School, 'the noblest institution in the world.'

The ground on which the Priory of the Grey Friars stood was conferred by Henry VIII. on the
Corporation of London (who caused the institution there of a home for poor boys and girls).
Subsequently, Edward VI. caused the old Priory to be properly repaired, and founded within
it that noble establishment called the Bluecoat School, or Christ's Hospital, for the EDUCATION
and maintenance of orphans and the children of indigent persons . . . Edward would not let
him (Bishop Ridley) depart till the letter was written (to the Lord Mayor), and then charged
him to deliver it himself, and signify his special request and commandment that no time might
be lost in proposing what was convenient, and apprising him of the proceedings.  The work was
zealously undertaken, Ridley himself engaging in it; and the result was the founding of Christ's
Hospital for the education of poor children. (The King endowed several other charities at the
same time.) "Lord God," said he, "I yield Thee most hearty thanks that Thou hast given me life
thus long to finish this work to the glory of Thy name!"  That innocent and most exemplary
life was drawing rapidly to its close, and in a few days he rendered up his spirit to his Creator,
praying God to defend the realm from Papistry.--J. Heneage Jesse's London:  its Celebrated
Characters and Places.

In the Great Hall hangs a large picture of King Edward VI. seated on his throne, in a scarlet
and ermined robe, holding the sceptre in his left hand, and presenting with the other the Charter
to the kneeling Lord Mayor. Thourout is the first town in that touches
the track, and not without grace its beautiful church, then you get to Roulers (in Flemish Rosselaere)
market noted for its linen and hemp, the Gothic church of San Miguel, whose beautiful Tower dominates
the city from a hill, and having been in 1794 a bloody battle field between the Austrian and French
Republicans, these under the orders of two famous generals: Pichegru and Macdonald.

A few minutes later, the via passes through Iseghem, save the small river Lys and enters the
considerable town of Courtrai (or Kortryk). It is curious to note that Belgium has just at both
ends, from east to west, two cities essentially manufacturing, they are like the preludes
of great activity on the Belgian manufacturing.

