Mudjikewis fell back quite thoughtful, saying to himself, "I wonder who this can be that he
is going to attack." And he was afraid. Still they continued to see the remains of former warriors,
who had been to the place where they were now going, some of whom had retreated as far back
as the place where they first saw the bones, beyond which no one had ever escaped. At last
they came to a piece of rising ground, from which they plainly distinguished, sleeping on a
distant mountain, a mammoth bear.

The distance between them was great, but the size of the animal caused him plainly to be seen.
"There," said the leader, "it is he to whom I am leading you; here our troubles only will commence,
for he is a Mishemokwa[64] and a Manito. It is he who has that we prize so dearly (i.e., wampum),
to obtain which, the warriors whose bones we saw sacrificed their lives. You must not be fearful.
Be manly. We shall find him asleep." They advanced boldly till they came near, when they stopped
to view him more closely. He was asleep. Then the leader went forward and touched the belt
around the animal's neck. "This," he said, "is what we must get. It contains the wampum." They
then requested the eldest to try and slip the belt over the bear's head, who appeared to be
fast asleep, as he was not in the least disturbed by the attempt to obtain it. All their efforts
were in vain, till it came to the one next the youngest. He tried, and the belt moved nearly
over the monster's head, but he could get it no further. Then the youngest one and leader made
his attempt, and succeeded. Placing it on the back of the oldest, he said, "Now we must run,"
and off they started. When one became fatigued with its weight, another would relieve him.
Thus they ran till they had passed the bones of all former warriors, and were some distance
beyond, when, looking back, they saw the monster slowly rising. Follow the rule of never disturbing
a cooking egg or a sleeping child. Serve on a hot dish.

Take two cans of Chinese reed birds, open them and take therefrom the two dozen birds contained
therein. In a hot frying pan place the birds in the grease that comes around them and heat them
through. Toast twelve square crackers and on each place two reed birds, and serve two on each
of six hot plates. With both the omelet and the reed birds serve Vin d'Oro.

Paste Makes Waste

In an Italian grocery store we noticed a great
variety of pastes in boxes arranged along the counter and began counting
them. The proprietor noticed us and, with a characteristic shrug of
his shoulders, said: "That is but a few of them. We have not room
to show them all." "Well," said he, "fasting, I dreamed of being in danger of instant death, when I
saw a small lodge, with smoke curling from its top. An old man lived in it, and I dreamed he
helped me. And may it be verified soon," he said, running forward and giving the peculiar yell,
and a howl as if the sounds came from the depths of his stomach, and which is called Checau-dum.
Getting upon a piece of rising ground, behold! a lodge, with smoke curling from its top, appeared.
This gave them all new strength, and they ran forward and entered it. The leader spoke to the
old man who sat in the lodge saying, "Nemesho,[65] help us. We claim your protection, for the
great bear will kill us." "Sit down and eat, my grandchildren," said the old man. "Who is a
great Manito?" said he, "there is none but me; but let me look," and he opened the door of
the lodge, when lo! at a little distance he saw the enraged animal coming on, with slow but
powerful leaps. He closed the door. "Yes," said he, "he is indeed a great Manito. My grandchildren,
you will be the cause of my losing my life. You asked my protection, and I granted it; so now
come what may, I will protect you. When the bear arrives at the door, you must run out of the
other end of the lodge." Then putting his hand to the side of the lodge where he sat, he brought
out a bag, which he opened. Taking out two small black dogs, he placed them before him. "These
are the ones I use when I fight," said he; and he commenced patting, with both hands, the sides
of one of them, and they began to swell out, so that he soon filled the lodge by his bulk.
And he had great strong teeth. When he attained his full size he growled, and from that moment,
as from instinct, he jumped out at the door and met the bear, who in another leap would have
reached the lodge. A terrible combat ensued. The skies rang with the howls of the fierce monsters.
The remaining dog soon took the field. The brothers, at the onset, took the advice of the old
man, and escaped through the opposite side of the lodge. They had not proceeded far before
they heard the dying cry of one of the dogs, and soon after of the other. "Well," said the
leader, "the old man will share their fate; so run, run, he will soon be after us." They started
with fresh vigor, for they had received food from the old man; but very soon the bear came
in sight, and again was fast gaining upon them. Again the leader asked the brothers if they
could do nothing for their safety. All were silent. The leader, running forward, did as before.
"I dreamed," he cried, "that, being in great trouble, an old man helped me who was a Manito.
We shall soon see his lodge." Taking courage, they still went on. After going a short distance
they saw the lodge of the old Manito. They entered immediately and claimed his protection,
telling him a Manito was after them. The old man, setting meat before them, said, "Eat. Who
is a Manito? there is no Manito but me. There is none whom I fear." And the earth trembled
as the monster advanced. The old man opened the door and saw him coming. He shut it slowly,
and said, "Yes, my grandchildren, you have brought trouble upon me." Procuring his medicine
sack, he took out his small war-clubs of black stone, and told the young men to run through
the other side of the lodge. As he handled the clubs they became very large, and the old man
stepped out just as the bear reached the door. Then striking him with one of the clubs, it
broke in pieces. The bear stumbled. Renewing the attempt with the other war-club, that also
was broken, but the bear fell senseless. Each blow the old man gave him sounded like a clap
of thunder, and the howls of the bear ran along till they filled the heavens.

The young men had now ran some distance, when they looked back. They could see that the bear
was recovering from the blows. First he moved his paws, and soon they saw him rise on his feet.
The old man shared the fate of the first, for they now heard his cries as he was torn in pieces. Both
these dishes might be termed glorified hash. The ingredients are so numerous and so varied
with occasion that one is tempted to imagine them made of the table leavings, and that is
not at all pleasant to contemplate.

We asked one of the managers at the Hang Far Low what he would order if he wished to get the best
dish prepared in the restaurant, and he was even more emphatic in his shrugs than the French or
Italian managers. He protested that there were so many good things it was impossible to name
just one as being the best. "You see, we have fish fins, they are very good. Snails, China style.
Very good, too. Then we have turtle brought from China, different from the turtle they have
here, and we cook it China style. Eels come from China and they are cooked China style, too.
What is China style? That I cannot tell you for the cook knows and nobody else. When we cook
China style everything is more better. We have here the very best tea."

This may be taken as a sample of what to expect when visiting Chinatown's restaurants, and while
we confess to having some excellent dishes served us in Chinatown, our preference lies in other
paths of endeavor.

We suppose it is all in the point of view, and our point of view is that there is nothing except superficiality
in the ordinary Chinese restaurants frequented by Americans, and those not so frequented are
impossible because of the average Chinaman's disregard for dirt and the usual niceties of food
preparation.

Artistic Japan

We wish it were in our power to describe a certain dinner as served us in a Japanese restaurant
in the days that followed the great fire. Desiring to observe in fitting manner a birthday
anniversary, we asked a Japanese friend if he could secure admission for a little party at a restaurant
noted for serving none but the highest class Japanese. We did not even know where the restaurant
was but had heard of such a place, and when we received word that
we would be permitted to have a dinner there we invited a newspaper
friend who was in the city from New York, together with two other
friends and the Japanese, who was the editor of the Soko Shimbun.
He took us to a dwelling house in O'Farrell street, having given previous
notice of our coming. There was nothing on the outside to indicate
that it was anything but a residence, but when we were ushered into
the large front room, we found it beautifully decorated with immense
chrysanthemums, and glittering with silver and cut glass on a magnificently
arranged table. The leader exerted himself, by actions and words, to cheer them
up; and once more he asked them if they thought of nothing, or could do nothing for their rescue;
and, as before, all were silent. "Then," he said, "this is the last time I can apply to my
guardian spirit. Now if we do not succeed, our fates are decided." He ran forward, invoking
his spirit with great earnestness, and gave the yell. "We shall soon arrive," said he to his
brothers, "to the place where my last guardian spirit dwells. In him I place great confidence.
Do not, do not be afraid, or your limbs will be fear-bound. We shall soon reach his lodge.
Run, run," he cried.

They were now in sight of the lodge of Iamo, the magician of the undying head--of that great
magician whose life had been the forfeit of the kind of necromantic leprosy caused by the careless
steps of the fatal curse of uncleanliness in his sister. This lodge was the sacred spot of
expected relief to which they had been fleeing, from the furious rage of the giant Bear, who
had been robbed of her precious boon, the magis-sauniqua. For it had been the design of many
previous war parties to obtain this boon.

In the mean time, the undying head of Iamo had remained in the medicine sack, suspended on
the sides of his wigwam, where his sister had placed it, with its mystic charms, and feathers,
and arrows. This head retained all life and vitality, keeping its eyes open, and directing
its sister, in order to procure food, where to place the magic arrows, and speaking at long
intervals. One day the sister saw the eyes of the head brighten, as if through pleasure. At
last it spoke. "Oh! sister," it said, "in what a pitiful situation you have been the cause
of placing me. Soon, very soon, a party of young men will arrive and apply to me for aid; but,
alas! how can I give what I would have done with so much pleasure. Nevertheless, take two arrows,
and place them where you have been in the habit of placing the others, and have meat prepared
and cooked before they arrive. When you hear them coming and calling on my name, go out and
say, 'Alas! it is long ago that an accident befell him; I was the cause of it.' If they still
come near, ask them in and set meat before them. And now you must follow my directions strictly.
When the bear is near, go out and meet him. You will take my medicine sack, bows and arrows,
and my head. You must then untie the sack, and spread out before you my paints of all colors,
my war eagle feathers, my tufts of dried hair, and whatever else it contains. As the bear approaches,
you will take all these articles, one by one, and say to him, 'This is my deceased brother's
paint,' and so on with all the other articles, throwing each of them as far from you as you
can. The virtues contained in them will cause him to totter; and, to complete his destruction,
you will take my head, and that too you will cast as far off as you can, crying aloud, 'See,
this is my deceased brother's head.' He will then fall senseless. By this time the young men
will have eaten, and you will call them to your assistance. You must then cut the carcass into
pieces, yes, into small pieces, and scatter them to the four winds; for, unless you do this,
he will again revive." She promised that all should be done as he said. She had only time to
prepare the meat, when the voice of the leader was heard calling upon Iamo for aid. The woman
went out and invited them in as her brother had directed. But the war party, being closely
pursued, came promptly up to the lodge. She invited them in, and placed the meat before them.
While they were eating they heard the bear approaching. Untying the medicine sack and taking
the head, she had all in readiness for his approach. When he came up, she did as she had been
told. "Behold, Mishemokwa," she cried, "this is the meda sack of Iamo. These are war eagle's
feathers of Iamo (casting them aside). These are magic arrows of Iamo (casting them down).
These are the sacred paints and magic charms of Iamo. These are dried tufts of the hair of
furious beasts. And this (swinging it with all her might) is his undying head." The monster
began to totter, as she cast one thing after the other on the ground, but still recovering
strength, came close up to the woman till she flung the head. As it rolled along the ground,
the blood, excited by the feelings of the head in this terrible scene, gushed from the nose
and mouth. The bear, tottering, soon fell with a tremendous noise. Then she cried for help,
and the young men came rushing out, having partially regained their strength and spirits.

Mudjikewis, stepping up, gave a yell, and struck the monster a blow upon the head. This he
repeated till it seemed like a mass of brains; while the others, as quick as possible, cut
him into very small pieces, which they then scattered in every direction. While thus employed,
happening to look around where they had thrown the meat, wonderful to behold! they saw, starting
up and running off in every direction, small black bears, such as are seen at the present day.
The country was soon overspread with these black animals. And it was from this monster that
the present race of bears, the mukwahs, derived their origin.

Having thus overcome their pursuer, they returned to the lodge. In the mean time, the woman,
gathering the implements she had scattered, and the head, placed them again in the sack. But
the head did not speak again.

The war party were now triumphant, but they did not know what use to make of their triumph.
Having spent so much time, and traversed so vast a country in their flight, the young men gave
up the idea of ever returning to their own country, and game being plenty, they determined
to remain where they now were, and make this their home. One day they moved off some distance
from the lodge for the purpose of hunting, having left the wampum captured with the woman.
They were very successful, and amused themselves, as all young men do when alone, by talking
and jesting with each other. One of them spoke and said, "We have all this sport to ourselves;
let us go and ask our sister if she will not let us bring the head to this place, as it is
still alive. It may be pleased to hear us talk and be in our company. In the mean time, we
will take food to our sister." They went, and requested the head. She told them to take it,
and they took it to their hunting-grounds, and tried to amuse it, but only at times did they
see its eyes beam with pleasure. One day, while busy in their encampment, they were unexpectedly
attacked by unknown Indians. The skirmish was long contested and bloody. Many of their foes
were slain, but still they were thirty to one. The young men fought desperately till they were
all killed. The attacking party then retreated to a height of ground, to muster their men,
and to count the number of missing and slain. One of their young men had strayed away, and,
in endeavoring to overtake them, came to the place where the undying head was hung up. Seeing
that alone retain animation, he eyed it for some time with fear and surprise. However, he took
it down and opened the sack, and was much pleased to see the beautiful feathers, one of which
he placed on his head.

Starting off, it waved gracefully over him till he reached his party, when he threw down the
head and sack, and told them how he had found it, and that the sack was full of paints and
feathers. They all looked at the head and made sport of it. Numbers of the young men took up
the paint and painted themselves, and one of the party took the head by the hair and said,
"Look, you ugly thing, and see your paints on the faces of warriors." But the feathers were
so beautiful, that numbers of them also placed them on their heads. Then again they used all
kinds of indignity to the head, for which they were in turn repaid by the death of those who
had used the feathers. Then the chief commanded them to throw all away except the head. "We
will see," said he, "when we get home, what we can do to it. We will try to make it shut its eyes."

When they reached their homes they took it to the council lodge, and hung it up before the
fire, fastening it with raw hide soaked, which would shrink and become tightened by the action
of the fire. In stores and restaurants frequented by Americans they cater to American
tastes and lose much of the foreign flavor.

It is also well to bear in mind that it is not in the largest stores that you find the greatest
variety when it comes to odd and new goods. A little shop, barely large enough to turn around
in between counter and wall, may have enough of interest to entertain you for half an hour, and
here the prices will be remarkably low, for these people have so little of the outside trade
that they have not learned to add to their prices when they see an American face coming.

What is true of the stores is also true of the vegetable stands, the meat shops, the fish stalls,
and bakeries.

Here you will find better and fresher food supplies than in any of the similar places in other
parts of the city, and the price is generally one-third less. The high cost of living has not
reached this thrifty people with their inborn knowledge of the values of foods. They live
twice as well as the average American family at half the cost. They combine knowledge of food
values with the art of preparation and have a resultant meal that is tasty, full flavored, and
nourishing at a minimum of expense.

Perhaps you want a meal. Your thoughts at once run to steaks and chops, and fried potatoes.
Nothing but a porterhouse or tenderloin steak or a kidney chop will do. It is the most expensive
meat and you think that of course it is the best and most nourishing. If the knowledge of food
values were with you, you would get the less expensive and more nourishing cuts. A flank steak,
perhaps, prepared en casserole, and you would have a fine dish for half the money. As it is
in meats so it is in all foods. For ten cents two people can have a dinner of tagliarini that
is at once nourishing and satisfying in flavor. Of course all this
requires knowledge, but that is easily acquired, and it adds to the
zest of life to know that you can do that which lifts eating from
the plane of feeding to that of dining; that you can change existence
into living. All because you dare to break away from conventionalities
which make so many people affect ignorance of how to live because
they imagine it is an evidence of refinement. Look! look at it--shedding
tears," said he to those around him; and they all laughed and passed their jokes upon it. The
chief, looking around and observing the woman, after some time said to the old man who came
with her, "Who have you got there? I have never seen that woman before in our village." "Yes,"
replied the man, "you have seen her; she is a relation of mine, and seldom goes out. She stays
in my lodge, and asked me to allow her to come with me to this place." In the centre of the
lodge sat one of those vain young men who are always forward, and fond of boasting and displaying
themselves before others. "Why," said he, "I have seen her often, and it is to his lodge I
go almost every night to court her." All the others laughed and continued their games. The
young man did not know he was telling a lie to the woman's advantage, who by that means escaped
scrutiny.

She returned to the old man's lodge, and immediately set out for her own country. Coming to
the spot where the bodies of her adopted brothers lay, she placed them together, their feet
toward the east. Then taking an axe which she had, she cast it up into the air, crying out,
"Brothers, get up from under it, or it will fall on you." This she repeated three times, and
the third time the brothers all arose and stood on their feet.

Mudjikewis commenced rubbing his eyes and stretching himself. "Why," said he, "I have overslept
myself." "No, indeed," said one of the others, "do you not know we were all killed, and that
is our sister who has brought us to life?" The young men took the bodies of their enemies and
burned them. Soon after, the woman went to procure wives for them, in a distant country, they
knew not where; but she returned with ten young females, which she gave to the young men, beginning
with the eldest. Mudjikewis stepped to and fro, uneasy lest he should not get the one he liked.
But he was not disappointed, for she fell to his lot. And they were well matched, for she was
a female magician. They then all moved into a very large lodge, and their sister Iamoqua told
them that the women must now take turns in going to her brother's head every night, trying
to untie it. They all said they would do so with pleasure. The eldest made the first attempt,
and with a rushing noise she fled through the air.

Towards daylight she returned. She had been unsuccessful, as she succeeded in untying only
one of the knots. All took their turns regularly, and each one succeeded in untying only one
knot each time. But when the youngest went, she commenced the work as soon as she reached the
lodge; although it had always been occupied, still the Indians never could see any one, for
they all possessed invisibility. For ten nights now, the smoke had not ascended, but filled
the lodge and drove them out. This last night they were all driven out, and the young woman
carried off the head.

The young people and the sister heard the young woman coming high through the air, and they
heard her saying, "Prepare the body of our brother." And as soon as they heard it, they went
to a small lodge where the black body of Iamo lay. His sister commenced cutting the neck part,
from which the head had been severed. She cut so deep as to cause it to bleed; and the others
who were present, by rubbing the body and applying medicines, expelled the blackness. In the
mean time, the one who brought it, by cutting the neck of the head, caused that also to bleed.

