ON THE EXECUTION OF

MUSIC, AND PRINCIPALLY

OF ANCIENT MUSIC

BY

M. CAMILLE SAINT-SAËNS

       Delivered at the

   "Salon de la Pensée Française" 

The experiment was afterwards several times repeated; and should be
tried by others until the fact be fully ascertained.

    

       

          (July, 1797.) Little W---- (three years old) was shown Miss B----'s
beautiful copy of the Aurora surgens of Guido.

The car of Apollo is encircled by the dancing hours, so that its
shape is not seen; part of one wheel only is visible between the robes
of the dancing figures.

We asked little W---- why that man (pointing to the figure of Apollo
in his invisible car) looked so much higher up in the air than the
other people?

W----.

"Because he is in a carriage; he is sitting in a carriage."

We pointed to the imperfect wheel, and asked if he knew what that was?

He immediately answered, "Yes, the wheel of the carriage."

 St.
Isidore, in his treatise on music, speaking of how Plain Song should be interpreted, considers
in turn all the voices and recommends those which are high, sweet and clear, for the execution
of vocal sounds, introits, graduals, offertories, etc. This is exactly contrary to what we
now do, since in place of utilizing these light tenor voices for Plain Song, we have recourse
to voices both heavy and low.

In the last century when it was desired to restore Plain Song to its primitive purity, one
met with insurmountable obstacles due to its prodigious prolixity of long series of notes,
repeating indefinitely the same musical forms; but in considering this in the light of explanations
given by St. Isidore, and in view of the Oriental origin of the Christian religion, we are
led to infer that these long series of notes were chants or vocalizations analogous to the
songs of the Muezzins of the Orient. At the beginning of the sixteenth century musical laws
began to be elaborated without, however, in this evolution towards modern tonal art, departing
entirely from all influence of the antique methods. The school named after Palestrina employed
as yet only the triads or perfect chords; this prevented absolutely all expression, although
some traces of it appear in the "Stabat Mater" of that composer. This music, ecclesiastical
in character, in which it would have been chimerical to try to introduce modern expression,
flourished in France, in Flanders, in Spain at the same time as in Italy, and enjoyed the favor
of Pope Marcellus, who recognized the merit of Palestrina in breaking loose from the grievous
practice of adapting popular songs to church music.

In the middle ages, as in antiquity, the laws of harmony were unknown; when it was desired
to sing in two parts, they sang at first in intervals of fifths and fourths, where it would
have seemed much more natural to sing in thirds and sixths. Such first attempts at music in
several parts were made in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, when they were
hunting for laws, and such music was discordant. It bore the name of Diaphony. The real Polyphony
came in the sixteenth century with the school of Palestrina.

Later on, little by little, laws were established, not arbitrarily, but laws resulting from
a long experience, and during all the sixteenth century admirable music was written, though
deprived of melody, properly speaking. Melody was reserved for dance music which, in fact,
was perfectly written in four and even in five part scores, as I have been able to convince
myself in hunting for dance music of the sixteenth century for my opera "Ascanio."

But no indication of movement, nuances or shading, enlightens us as to the manner in which
this music should be interpreted. At Paris the first attempts to execute the music of Palestrina
were made in the time of Louis Philippe, by the Prince of Moscow. He had founded a choral society
of amateurs, all titled, but gifted with good voices and a certain musical talent. This society
executed many of the works of Palestrina and particularly the famous "Mass of Pope Marcellus."
They adopted at that time the method of singing most of these pieces very softly and with an
extreme slowness so that in the long-sustained notes the singers were forced to divide their
task by some taking up the sound when the others were out of breath. Consonant chords thus
presented evidently produced music which was very agreeable to the ear, but unquestionably
the author could not recognize his work in such rendering. Quite different was the method of
the singers in the Sistine Chapel when I heard them for the first time in Rome in 1855 when
they sung the "Sicut Cervus" of Palestrina. They roared in a head-splitting way without the
least regard for the pleasure of the listener, or for the meaning of the words they sang. It
is difficult to believe that this music was ever composed to be executed in such a barbarous
manner, which, it seems to me, differs completely from our musical conceptions; and it is a
great mistake also in modern editions of such music to introduce delicate shadings or nuances
and even employ the words "very expressive."

Palestrina has had his admirers among French literary writers. We recall the scene created
by Octave Feuillet in "M. de Camors." M. de Camors is at his window; a lady is at the piano;
a gentleman at the cello, and another lady sings the Mass of Palestrina which I have referred
to above. Such a way of playing this music is simply out of the question. Feuillet had obtained
his inspiration for this from a fanciful painting which he had seen somewhere.

Expression was introduced into music by the chord of the dominant seventh, the invention of
which is attributed to Monteverde. However, Palestrina had already employed that chord in his
"Adoremus," but probably without understanding its importance or divining its future.

Before this invention the interval of three whole tones (Triton) was considered an intolerable
dissonance and was called "the devil in music." The dominant seventh has been the open door
to all dissonances and to the domain of expression. It was a death blow to that learned music
of the sixteenth century; it was the arrival of the reign of melody--of the development of
the art of singing. Very often the song or the solo instrument would be accompanied by a simple,
ciphered bass, the ciphers indicating the chords which he who accompanied should play as well
as he could, either on the harpsichord or the theorbe. The theorbe was an admirable instrument
which is now to be found only in museums,--a sort of enormous guitar with a long neck and multiple
strings which offered great opportunities to a skilful artist.

It is curious to note that in ancient times there was not attributed to the minor and major
keys the same character as is assigned them to-day.[2] The joyous canticle of the Catholic
church, "O Filii et Filiæ," is in the minor. "The Romanesca," a dance air of the sixteenth
century, is equally in the minor, just like all the dance airs of Lully, and of Rameau, and
the gavottes of Sebastian Bach. The celebrated "Funeral March" of Haendel, reproduced in many
of his works, is in C Major. The delicious love duo of Acis and Galathee, which changes to
a trio by the addition of the part of Polyphemus, is in A Minor. When Galathee weeps afterward
over the death of Acis, the air is in F Major. It is only recently that we find dance airs
in the major mood or key.

From the seventeenth century on, music entered into everyday life, never again to be separated
from it. Thus music has remained in favor, and we are continually hearing executed the works
of Bach, of Haendel, of Hayden, of Mozart and of Beethoven. How are such works executed? Are
they executed as they should be? That is another question.

One source of error is found in the evolution which musical instruments have undergone. In
the time of Bach and Haendel the bow truly merited its Italian name of "arco." It was curved
like an arc--the hairs of the bow constituted the chord of the arc, a very great flexibility
resulting which allowed the strings of the instrument to be enveloped and to be played simultaneously.
The bow seldom quitted the strings, doing so only in rare cases and when especially indicated.
On this account it happens that the indication of "legato" is very rare. Even though there
was a separate stroke of the bow for each note, the notes were not separated one from the other.
Nowadays the form of the bow is completely changed. The execution of the music is based upon
the detached bow, and although it is easy to keep the bow upon the strings just as they did
at the commencement of the nineteenth century, performers have lost the habit of it. The result
is that they give to ancient music a character of perpetually jumping, which completely destroys
its nature.

The very opposite movement has been produced in instruments of the key or piano type. The precise
indications of Mozart show that "non-legato," which doesn't mean at all "staccato," was the
ordinary way of playing the instrument, and that the veritable "legato" was played only where
the author specially indicated it. The clavecin or harpsichord, which preceded the piano, when
complete with two banks of keys, many registers giving the octaves and different tone qualities,
oftentimes like the organ with a key for pedals, offered resources which the piano does not
possess. A Polish lady, Madame Landowska, has studied thoroughly these resources, and has shown
us how pieces written for this instrument thus disclosed elements of variety which are totally
missing when the same are played upon the piano; but the clavecin tone lacked fulness, and
shadings or nuances were out of the question.

Sonority or tone was varied by changing the keys or register just as on the organ. On the other
hand, with the piano one can vary the sonority by augmenting or diminishing the force of the
attack, hence its original name of "forte piano,"--a name too long, which was shortened at
first by suppressing the last syllables; so that one reads, not without astonishment, in the
accounts given of young Mozart, of the skill he showed in playing "forte" at a time when he
was playing on instruments of a very feeble tone. Nowadays when athletic artists exert all
their force upon the modern instruments of terrific sonority, they are said to play the "piano"
(toucher du piano).

We must conclude that the indication "non-legato" finally degenerated into meaning "staccato."
In my youth I heard persons advanced in age whose performance on the piano was extremely dry
and jumpy. Then a reaction took place. The tyrannical reign of the perpetual "legato" succeeded. [1]
Through their provident attention, in a very few years after its discovery, the island of Hispaniola
was in possession of the most important domestic animals, as well as fruits and vegetables of
the Old World, some of which have since continued to furnish the staple of a far more lucrative commerce
than was ever anticipated from its gold mines. [2]

Emigration to the new countries was encouraged by the liberal tenor of the royal ordinances passed
from time to time. The settlers in Hispaniola were to have their passage free; to be excused
from taxes; to have the absolute property of such plantations on
the island as they should engage to cultivate for four years; and
they were furnished with a gratuitous supply of grain and stock for
their farms.

All exports and imports were exempted from duty; a striking contrast to the narrow policy of
later ages. Five hundred persons, including scientific men and artisans of every description,
were sent out and maintained at the expense of government. To provide for the greater security
and quiet of the island, Ovando was authorized to gather the residents into towns, which were endowed
with the privileges appertaining to similar corporations in the mother country; and a number of married
men, with their families, were encouraged to establish themselves in them, with the view of giving
greater solidity and permanence to the settlement. [3]

With these wise provisions were mingled others savoring too strongly of the illiberal spirit of
the age. Such were those prohibiting Jews, Moors, or indeed any but Castilians, for whom the
discovery was considered exclusively to have been made, from inhabiting, or even visiting, the
New World.

The government kept a most jealous eye upon what it regarded as its own peculiar perquisites, reserving
to itself the exclusive possession of all minerals, dyewoods, and precious stones, that should
be discovered; and although private persons were allowed to search for gold, they were subjected
to the exorbitant tax of two-thirds, subsequently reduced to one-fifth, of all they should obtain,
for the crown. [4]

The measure which contributed more effectually than any other, at this period, to the progress
of discovery and colonization, was the license granted, under certain
regulations, in 1495, for voyages undertaken by private individuals.

No use was made of this permission until some years later, in 1499. The spirit of enterprise had flagged,
and the nation had experienced something like disappointment on contrasting the meagre results
of their own discoveries with the dazzling successes of the Portuguese, who had struck at once
into the very heart of the jewelled east. The report of the admiral's third voyage, however, and
the beautiful specimens of pearls which he sent home from the coast
of Paria, revived the cupidity of the nation.

Private adventurers now proposed to avail themselves of the license already granted, and to follow
up the track of discovery on their own account. It was an "allegro moderate." Haendel often wrote "andante allegro." Through
ignorance of that fact the beautiful air of Gluck, "Divinities of the Styx," is sung too slowly
and the air of Thaos in the "Iphigenia in Tauris" equally so. Berlioz recollected having heard
at the opera in his youth a much more animated execution of these works.

Finally, in ancient times notes were not defined as they are to-day and their value was approximative
only. This liberty in the execution of music is particularly perceptible in the works of Rameau.
To conform to his intentions in the vocal part such music must not be interpreted literally.
One must be governed by the declamation, and not by the written note indicating a long or short
duration. The proof of this is to be seen when the violins and the voice are in unison--the
way of writing them is different.

A great obstacle to executing ancient works from the eighteenth century on is in the interpretation
of grace notes, "appoggiaturas" and others. In these cases there is an unfortunate habit in
players of conforming to their own taste, which may guide a little, but cannot suffice in every
instance. One can be convinced of this in studying The Method of Violin by the father of Mozart.
We find there things which one would never dream of.

The "appoggiatura"[4] (from appoggiare, which in Italian means "to lean upon"), should always
be long, the different ways in which it may be written having no influence upon its length.
There is an exception to this when its final little note, ascending or descending, and preceding
the larger note, is distant from it a disjointed degree. In this case it is not an "appoggiatura,"
and should be played short. In many cases it prolongs the duration of the note which follows
it. It may even alter the value of the notes following.

I will cite in connection with the subject of the "appoggiatura" the beautiful duo with chorus
of the "Passion According to St. Matthew," and at the same time, I would point out the error
committed in making of this passion a most grandios performance with grand choral and instrumental
masses. One is deceived by its noble character, by its two choruses, by its two orchestras,
and one forgets that it was destined for the little Church of St. Thomas in Leipsig, where
Sebastian Bach was organist. While in certain cantatas that composer employed horns, trumpets,
trombones and cymbals, for the "Passion According to St. Matthew," he only used in each of
the orchestras two flutes, two hautbois, changing from the ordinary hautbois to the hautbois
d'amour and the hautbois of the chase,--now the English horn; that is to say, hautbois pitched
a third and a fifth lower. These two orchestras and these two choruses then certainly were
reduced to a very small number of performers.

In all very ancient music, from the time of Lully, one finds constantly a little cross marked
over the notes. Often this certainly indicates a trill, but it seems difficult to take it always
to mean such. However, perhaps fashion desired that trills should thus be made out of place.
I have never been able to find an explanation of this sign, not even in the musical dictionary
of J. J. Rousseau. This dictionary none the less contains a great deal of precious information.
Does it not inform us, among other things, that the copyists of former times were veritable
collaborators? When the author indicated the altos with the basses, the hautbois with the violins,
these copyists undertook to make the necessary modifications. Times have unfortunately changed
since.

In Rameau's music, certain signs are unintelligible. Musical treatises of that time say that
it is impossible to describe them, and that to understand them it was necessary to have heard
them interpreted by a professor of singing.

With clavecinists the multiplicity of grace notes is extreme. As a rule they give the explanation
of these at the head of their works, just as Rameau did. I note a curious sign which indicates
that the right hand should arrive upon the keys a little after the left. This shows that there
was not then that frightful habit of playing one hand after the other as is often done nowadays.

This prolixity of grace notes indulged by players upon the clavecin is rather terrifying at
first, but one need not be detained by them, for they are not indispensable. (V. Chapter on
Taste and Imagination.)

We shall not trespass upon the reader's patience with any more anecdotes from the nursery. We
hope, that candid and intelligent parents will pardon, if they have
discovered any desire in us to exhibit our pupils.

We may mistake our own motives, and we do not pretend to be perfectly impartial judges upon this
occasion; but we have hoped, that only such conversations or anecdotes have been produced, as
may be of some use in Practical Education. From conversation, if properly managed, children
may learn with ease, expedition, and delight, a variety of knowledge;
and a skilful preceptor can apply in conversation all the principles
that we have laboriously endeavoured to make intelligible.

 The organ of St. Merry had a pitch in B flat. In addition to the tempi and the different
instruments which make the execution difficult, one must add the recitatives which were very
much employed and of which at that time a serious study was made. I recall a beautiful example
of recitative in the "Iphigenia in Tauris."

We come now to the modern epoch. From the time of Liszt, who not only revolutionized the performance
of music on the piano, but also the way of writing it, authors give to performers all necessary
indications, and they have only to carefully observe them. There are, however, some interesting
remarks applicable to the music of Chopin which recent editions unfortunately are commencing
to falsify. Chopin detested the abuse of the pedal. He could not bear that through an ignorant
employment of the pedal two different chords should be mixed in tone together. Therefore, he
has given indications with the greatest pains. Once he has pledged his word to defend the American
flag, he stands by it manfully.

In the Civil War many Indians fought on both sides, some of them as officers. General Grant
had a full-blood Indian on his staff: Col. Ely Parker, afterward Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
At one time in recent years a company of Indians was recruited in the regular army, and individual
red men are still rendering good service in both army and navy (thirty-five
ex-students of Carlisle alone), as well as in other branches of the
Federal service.

We have lived to see men of our blood in the councils of the nation, and an Indian Register of
the Treasury, who must sign all our currency before it is valid.
An Indian head is on the five-dollar bill and the new nickel. It means permitting great
liberty to the singing part or melody of the composition, while the accompaniment keeps rigorous
time. Mozart played in this way and he speaks of it in one of his letters and he describes
it marvelously, only the term "tempo rubato" had not at that time been invented. This kind
of playing, demanding complete independence of the two hands, is not within the ability of
everybody. Therefore, to give the illusion of such effect, players dislocate the bass and destroy
the rhythm of the bar. When to this disorder is joined the abuse of the pedal, there results
that vicious execution which, passing muster, is generally accepted in the salons and often
elsewhere.

Another plague in the modern execution of music is the abuse of the tremolo by both singers
and instrumental performers. With singers, this quivering is often the result of a fatigued
voice, in which case it is involuntary and is only to be deplored; but that is not the case
with violin and violoncello players. It is a fashion with them born of a desire to make an
effect at any cost, and is due to the depraved taste of the public for a passionate execution
of music; but art does not live on passion alone. In our time, when art, through an admirable
evolution, has conquered all domains, music should express all, from the most perfect calm
to the most violent emotions. When one is strongly moved the voice is altered, and in moving
situations the singer should make his voice vibrate. Formerly the German female singers sang
with all their voice, without any vibration in the sound and without any reference to the situation;
one would say they were clarinets. Now, one must vibrate all the time. I heard the Meistersingers'
quintette sung in Paris. It was dreadful and the composition incomprehensible. Not all singers,
fortunately, have this defect, but it has taken possession of violinists and 'cello players.
That was not the way Franchomme, the 'cello player and collaborator of Chopin, played, nor
was it the way Sarasate, Sivori or Joachim played.

I have written a concerto, the first and last movements of which are very passionate. They
are separated by a movement of the greatest calm,--a lake between two mountains. Those great
violin players who do me the honor to play this piece, do not understand the contrast and they
vibrate on the lake just as they do on the mountains. Sarasate, for whom this concerto was
written, was as calm on the lake as he was agitated on the mountains; nor did he fail on this
account to produce always a great effect--for there is nothing like giving to music its veritable
character.

Anciently music was not written as scrupulously as it is to-day, and a certain liberty was
permitted to interpretation. This liberty went farther than one would think, resembling much
what the great Italian singers furnished examples of in the days of Rubini and Malibran. They
did not hesitate to embroider the compositions, and the reprises were widespread. Reprises
meant that when the same piece was sung a second time, the executants gave free bridle to their
own inspiration. I have heard in my youth the last echoes of this style of performance. Nowadays
reprises are suppressed, and that is more prudent. However, it would be betraying the intentions
of Mozart to execute literally many passages in concertos written by that author for the piano.
At times he would write a veritable scheme only, upon which he would improvise. Many of the younger
generation are now legally married, and an effort is made to oblige them to secure legal divorces
when a separation is sought, but as some state courts hold that they have no jurisdiction
to hear applications of non-citizen Indians living on reservations, this is often impracticable,
and naturally the dissatisfied simply abandon wife or husband, and perhaps take another by
Indian custom only. It is advisable that family records be more strictly kept than is now the
case. There as elsewhere the letter kills; the spirit vivifies. But in a case like
that one must know Mozart and assimilate his style, which demands a long study.

EXPLANATORY NOTES

[1] Plain Song (Fr. Plain Chant) was the earliest form of Christian church music. As its name
indicates, it was a plain, artless chant without rhythm, accent, modulation or accompaniment,
and was first sung in unison. Oriental or Grecian in origin, it had four keys called Authentic
Modes, to which were added later four more called Plagal Modes. These modes, called Phrygian,
Dorian, Lydian, etc., are merely different presentations in the regular order of the notes
of the C Major scale--first, with D as the initial or tonic note, then with E et seq. They
lack the sentiment of a leading seventh note. In these weird keys Plain Song was conceived
for psalms, graduals, introits, and other offices of the primitive church. Such music was generally
called Gregorian, because St. Gregory, Pope of Rome in the seventh century, collected and codified
it, adding thereto his own contributions. As this lady's name has been mentioned in a monody
on the death of Major André, we take this opportunity of correcting
a mistake that occurs in a note to that performance.

"Till busy rumour chas'd each pleasing dream, And quench'd the radiance
of the silver beam." Later
this manner was altered to antiphonal singing--two choruses being used, one for the initial
and the other for the responsive chant. Such music thus rendered was singularly grave, dignified,
and awe-inspiring.

During the middle ages Plain Song unfortunately degenerated much from its original sacred character,
and, in one disguise or another, popular and even indecorous songs were smuggled into it. In
the time of Pope Marcellus, 1576, Palestrina was employed to purge Gregorian music of its scandalous
laxities.

M. Saint-Saëns, to illustrate the clever way in which popular songs were given an ecclesiastical
or Plain Song character, has here added to his luminous lecture the following precious original
composition, reproduced in facsimile, in which through ingenious contrapuntal treatment he
gives a mock sacred form to an old French ditty, "I Have Some Good Tobacco in My Snuffbox."

"It is apparent here that by assigning the melody to the tenor part, it is unrecognizable.
Oftentimes licentious songs were taken as the Plain Chant text, and on this account Pope Marcellus
commissioned Palestrina to put an end to such practices."

In a note he adds: "It must be remembered that before popular songs were thus treated in counterpoint
[which means that while the song is being produced by one voice, the other voice or voices
are singing against it notes entirely different from the melody], the text for that kind of
treatment was the Plain Song--the singing of which was always assigned to the tenor part. In
my youth I have heard graduals treated in this fashion at High Mass in my parish church of
St. Sulpice in Paris, which is still renowned for the splendor of its ceremonials."

[2]

(Illustration: musical notation)

There are here illustrations of (a) the difference between the written manner of Gluck, in
a passage from his "Alceste"--and the actually correct way of interpreting and playing it;
(b) a passage from the scherzo of Mendelssohn's string quartet,--to show how a gay subject
can be treated in the minor mood--and M. Saint-Saëns adds: "Mendelssohn's scherzo of his 'Midsummer
Night's Dream' is in sol minor but it evokes no idea of sadness, although oftentimes those
who play it, deceived by its minor mood, give it a melancholy character, which is very far
from what the composer intended." 

We are a superior race--a chosen people.

We have a heaven fenced in with golden gates from all pagans and
unbelievers, and a hell where the souls of such are tortured eternally.

We are honorable, truthful, refined, religious, peaceful; we hate cruelty and injustice; our
business is to educate, Christianize, and protect the rights and property of the weak and the
uncivilized."

This sort of talk had its effect. Let us see what followed.

CHAPTER II

THE HOW AND THE WHY OF INDIAN WARS

I have tried to set forth the
character and motives of the primitive Indian as they were affected
by contact with civilization. In a word, demoralization was gradual
but certain, culminating in the final loss of his freedom and confinement
to the reservation under most depressing conditions.

(Illustration: musical notation)

The proper manner of writing the graceful gruppetto is here given--with an illustration following
of how it is to be correctly played, and how it is incorrectly executed.

[5] Next is illustrated the two ways of playing the mordant.

[4] Finally, are several examples of the appoggiature,--showing both the way they are written,
and the way they are to be executed.

The last line of the music above is an example of how in Haendel the rhythm as interpreted
differs from that in which the passage is written.

