We had dinner under the green trees in a garden belonging to the hotel and overlooking the
Neckar; then, after a smoke, we went to bed. We had a refreshing nap, then got up about three
in the afternoon and put on our panoply. As we tramped gaily out at the gate of the town, we
overtook a peasant's cart, partly laden with odds and ends of cabbages and similar vegetable
rubbish, and drawn by a small cow and a smaller donkey yoked together. It was a pretty slow
concern, but it got us into Heilbronn before dark--five miles, or possibly it was seven.

We stopped at the very same inn which the famous old robber-knight and rough fighter Goetz
von Berlichingen, abode in after he got out of captivity in the Square Tower of Heilbronn between
three hundred and fifty and four hundred years ago. Ashley: "No, I understand that. You merely
wish me to despise you. But why?"

Miss Ramsey, nervously: "You know."

Ashley: "But I don't know--Isobel, dearest, darling, if you will allow me to express myself so
fully. How should I know?"

Miss Ramsey: "I've told you."

Ashley: "May I take your hand? For good-by!" He possesses himself of it. "It seems to go along
with those expressions."

Miss Ramsey, self-contemptuously: "Oh yes."

Ashley: "Thank you. Where were we?"

Miss Ramsey, sitting up and recovering her hand: "You were saying
good-by--"

Ashley: "Was I? But not before I had told you that I knew you were
doing all that for my best good, and I wish--I wish you could have
seen how exemplary you looked when you were trying to pour a cocktail
out of a corked bottle, between your remarks on passionate fiction
and puffs of the insidious cigarette!

When the venomous tobacco began to get in its deadly work, and you
turned pale and reeled a little, and called for air, it made me mentally
vow to go back to Miss Fray instantly, whether I was engaged to her
or not, and cut out poor old Brooks--"

Miss Ramsey: "Was it Mr. Brooks? I didn't hear the name exactly."

Ashley: "When I was telling Miss Garnett? I ought to have spoken louder,
but I wasn't sure at the time you were listening. Though as you were
saying, what does it matter now?"

Miss Ramsey: "Did I say that?"

Ashley:
"Words to that effect. And they have made me feel how unworthy of
you I am. I'm not heroic--by nature. But I could be, if you made me--by
art--"

Miss Ramsey, springing to her feet indignantly: "Now, you
are ridiculing me--you are making fun of me."

Ashley, gathering himself
up from his hassock with difficulty, and confronting her: "Do I look
like a man who would dare to make fun of you? I am half a head shorter
than you, and in moral grandeur you overtop me so that I would always
have to wear a high hat when I was with you."

Miss Ramsey, thoughtfully:
"Plenty of girls are that way, now. But if you are ashamed of my being
tall--" Flashingly, and with starting tears.

Ashley: "Ashamed! I
can always look up to you, you can always stoop to me!" He stretches
his arms toward her.

Miss Ramsey, recoiling bewildered: "Wait! We
haven't got to that yet." Ordinarily, a gilded angel strikes the hour on a big bell with a hammer;
as the striking ceases, a life-sized figure of Time raises its hour-glass and turns it; two
golden rams advance and butt each other; a gilded cock lifts its wings; but the main features
are two great angels, who stand on each side of the dial with long horns at their lips; it
was said that they blew melodious blasts on these horns every hour--but they did not do it
for us. We were told, later, that they blew only at night, when the town was still.

Within the RATHHAUS were a number of huge wild boars' heads, preserved, and mounted on brackets
along the wall; they bore inscriptions telling who killed them and how many hundred years ago
it was done. One room in the building was devoted to the preservation of ancient archives.
There they showed us no end of aged documents; some were signed by Popes, some by Tilly and
other great generals, and one was a letter written and subscribed by Goetz von Berlichingen
in Heilbronn in 1519 just after his release from the Square Tower.

This fine old robber-knight was a devoutly and sincerely religious man, hospitable, charitable
to the poor, fearless in fight, active, enterprising, and possessed of a large and generous
nature. He had in him a quality of being able to overlook moderate injuries, and being able
to forgive and forget mortal ones as soon as he had soundly trounced the authors of them. He
was prompt to take up any poor devil's quarrel and risk his neck to right him. The common folk
held him dear, and his memory is still green in ballad and tradition. He used to go on the
highway and rob rich wayfarers; and other times he would swoop down from his high castle on
the hills of the Neckar and capture passing cargoes of merchandise. In his memoirs he piously
thanks the Giver of all Good for remembering him in his needs and delivering sundry such cargoes
into his hands at times when only special providences could have relieved him. He was a doughty
warrior and found a deep joy in battle. In an assault upon a stronghold in Bavaria when he
was only twenty-three years old, his right hand was shot away, but he was so interested in
the fight that he did not observe it for a while. He said that the iron hand which was made
for him afterward, and which he wore for more than half a century, was nearly as clever a member
as the fleshy one had been. I was glad to get a facsimile of the letter written by this fine
old German Robin Hood, though I was not able to read it. He was a better artist with his sword
than with his pen.

We went down by the river and saw the Square Tower. It was a very venerable structure, very
strong, and very ornamental. There was no opening near the ground. They had to use a ladder
to get into it, no doubt.

We visited the principal church, also--a curious old structure, with a towerlike spire adorned
with all sorts of grotesque images. The inner walls of the church were placarded with large
mural tablets of copper, bearing engraved inscriptions celebrating the merits of old Heilbronn
worthies of two or three centuries ago, and also bearing rudely painted effigies of themselves
and their families tricked out in the queer costumes of those days. The head of the family
sat in the foreground, and beyond him extended a sharply receding and diminishing row of sons;
facing him sat his wife, and beyond her extended a low row of diminishing daughters. The family
was usually large, but the perspective bad.

Then we hired the hack and the horse which Goetz von Berlichingen used to use, and drove several
miles into the country to visit the place called WEIBERTREU--Wife's Fidelity I suppose it means.
It was a feudal castle of the Middle Ages. When we reached its neighborhood we found it was
beautifully situated, but on top of a mound, or hill, round and tolerably steep, and about
two hundred feet high. Therefore, as the sun was blazing hot, we did not climb up there, but
took the place on trust, and observed it from a distance while the horse leaned up against
a fence and rested. The place has no interest except that which is lent it by its legend, which
is a very pretty one--to this effect:

THE LEGEND

In the Middle Ages, a couple of young dukes, brothers, took opposite sides in one of the wars,
the one fighting for the Emperor, the other against him. One of them owned the castle and village
on top of the mound which I have been speaking of, and in his absence his brother came with
his knights and soldiers and began a siege. It was a long and tedious business, for the people
made a stubborn and faithful defense. But at last their supplies ran out and starvation began
its work; more fell by hunger than by the missiles of the enemy. They by and by surrendered,
and begged for charitable terms. But the beleaguering prince was so incensed against them for
their long resistance that he said he would spare none but the women and children--all men
should be put to the sword without exception, and all their goods destroyed. Then the women
came and fell on their knees and begged for the lives of their husbands.

"No," said the prince, "not a man of them shall escape alive; you yourselves shall go with
your children into houseless and friendless banishment; but that you may not starve I grant
you this one grace, that each woman may bear with her from this place as much of her most valuable
property as she is able to carry."

Very well, presently the gates swung open and out filed those women carrying their HUSBANDS
on their shoulders. The besiegers, furious at the trick, rushed forward to slaughter the men,
but the Duke stepped between and said:

"No, put up your swords--a prince's word is inviolable."

When we got back to the hotel, King Arthur's Round Table was ready for us in its white drapery,
and the head waiter and his first assistant, in swallow-tails and white cravats, brought in
the soup and the hot plates at once.

Mr. X had ordered the dinner, and when the wine came on, he picked up a bottle, glanced at
the label, and then turned to the grave, the melancholy, the sepulchral head waiter and said
it was not the sort of wine he had asked for. The head waiter picked up the bottle, cast his
undertaker-eye on it and said:

"It is true; I beg pardon." Then he turned on his subordinate and calmly said, "Bring another
label."

At the same time he slid the present label off with his hand and laid it aside; it had been
newly put on, its paste was still wet. When the new label came, he put it on; our French wine
being now turned into German wine, according to desire, the head waiter went blandly about
his other duties, as if the working of this sort of miracle was a common and easy thing to him.

Mr. X said he had not known, before, that there were people honest enough to do this miracle
in public, but he was aware that thousands upon thousands of labels were imported into America
from Europe every year, to enable dealers to furnish to their customers in a quiet and inexpensive
way all the different kinds of foreign wines they might require.

We took a turn around the town, after dinner, and found it fully as interesting in the moonlight
as it had been in the daytime. The streets were narrow and roughly paved, and there was not
a sidewalk or a street-lamp anywhere. The dwellings were centuries old, and vast enough for
hotels. They widened all the way up; the stories projected further and further forward and
aside as they ascended, and the long rows of lighted windows, filled with little bits of panes,
curtained with figured white muslin and adorned outside with boxes of flowers, made a pretty
effect.

The moon was bright, and the light and shadow very strong; and nothing could be more picturesque
than those curving streets, with their rows of huge high gables leaning far over toward each
other in a friendly gossiping way, and the crowds below drifting through the alternating blots
of gloom and mellow bars of moonlight. Nearly everybody was abroad, chatting, singing, romping,
or massed in lazy comfortable attitudes in the doorways.

In one place there was a public building which was fenced about with a thick, rusty chain,
which sagged from post to post in a succession of low swings. The pavement, here, was made
of heavy blocks of stone. In the glare of the moon a party of barefooted children were swinging
on those chains and having a noisy good time. They were not the first ones who have done that;
even their great-great-grandfathers had not been the first to do it when they were children.
The strokes of the bare feet had worn grooves inches deep in the stone flags; it had taken
many generations of swinging children to accomplish that.

Everywhere in the town were the mold and decay that go with antiquity, and evidence of it;
but I do not know that anything else gave us so vivid a sense of the old age of Heilbronn as
those footworn grooves in the paving-stones.

CHAPTER XIII

[My Long Crawl in the Dark]

When we got back to the hotel I wound and set the pedometer and put it in my pocket, for I
was to carry it next day and keep record of the miles we made. The work which we had given
the instrument to do during the day which had just closed had not fatigued it perceptibly.

We were in bed by ten, for we wanted to be up and away on our tramp homeward with the dawn.
I hung fire, but Harris went to sleep at once. I hate a man who goes to sleep at once; there
is a sort of indefinable something about it which is not exactly an insult, and yet is an insolence;
and one which is hard to bear, too. I lay there fretting over this injury, and trying to go
to sleep; but the harder I tried, the wider awake I grew. I got to feeling very lonely in the
dark, with no company but an undigested dinner. My mind got a start by and by, and began to
consider the beginning of every subject which has ever been thought of; but it never went further
than the beginning; it was touch and go; it fled from topic to topic with a frantic speed.
At the end of an hour my head was in a perfect whirl and I was dead tired, fagged out.

The fatigue was so great that it presently began to make some head against the nervous excitement;
while imagining myself wide awake, I would really doze into momentary unconsciousness, and
come suddenly out of it with a physical jerk which nearly wrenched my joints apart--the delusion
of the instant being that I was tumbling backward over a precipice. After I had fallen over
eight or nine precipices and thus found out that one half of my brain had been asleep eight
or nine times without the wide-awake, hard-working other half suspecting it, the periodical
unconsciousnesses began to extend their spell gradually over more of my brain-territory, and
at last I sank into a drowse which grew deeper and deeper and was doubtless just on the very
point of being a solid, blessed dreamless stupor, when--what was that?

My dulled faculties dragged themselves partly back to life and took a receptive attitude. Now
out of an immense, a limitless distance, came a something which grew and grew, and approached,
and presently was recognizable as a sound--it had rather seemed to be a feeling, before. This
sound was a mile away, now--perhaps it was the murmur of a storm; and now it was nearer--not
a quarter of a mile away; was it the muffled rasping and grinding of distant machinery? No,
it came still nearer; was it the measured tramp of a marching troop? But it came nearer still,
and still nearer--and at last it was right in the room: it was merely a mouse gnawing the woodwork.
So I had held my breath all that time for such a trifle.

Well, what was done could not be helped; I would go to sleep at once and make up the lost time.
That was a thoughtless thought. Without intending it--hardly knowing it--I fell to listening
intently to that sound, and even unconsciously counting the strokes of the mouse's nutmeg-grater.
Presently I was deriving exquisite suffering from this employment, yet maybe I could have endured
it if the mouse had attended steadily to his work; but he did not do that; he stopped every
now and then, and I suffered more while waiting and listening for him to begin again than I
did while he was gnawing. Along at first I was mentally offering a reward of five--six--seven--ten--dollars
for that mouse; but toward the last I was offering rewards which were entirely beyond my means.
I close-reefed my ears--that is to say, I bent the flaps of them down and furled them into
five or six folds, and pressed them against the hearing-orifice--but it did no good: the faculty
was so sharpened by nervous excitement that it was become a microphone and could hear through
the overlays without trouble.

My anger grew to a frenzy. I finally did what all persons before me have done, clear back to
Adam,--resolved to throw something. I reached down and got my walking-shoes, then sat up in
bed and listened, in order to exactly locate the noise. But I couldn't do it; it was as unlocatable
as a cricket's noise; and where one thinks that that is, is always the very place where it
isn't. So I presently hurled a shoe at random, and with a vicious vigor. It struck the wall
over Harris's head and fell down on him; I had not imagined I could throw so far. It woke Harris,
and I was glad of it until I found he was not angry; then I was sorry. He soon went to sleep
again, which pleased me; but straightway the mouse began again, which roused my temper once
more. I did not want to wake Harris a second time, but the gnawing continued until I was compelled
to throw the other shoe.

This time I broke a mirror--there were two in the room--I got the largest one, of course. Harris
woke again, but did not complain, and I was sorrier than ever. I resolved that I would suffer
all possible torture before I would disturb him a third time.

The mouse eventually retired, and by and by I was sinking to sleep, when a clock began to strike;
I counted till it was done, and was about to drowse again when another clock began; I counted;
then the two great RATHHAUS clock angels began to send forth soft, rich, melodious blasts from
their long trumpets. I had never heard anything that was so lovely, or weird, or mysterious--but
when they got to blowing the quarter-hours, they seemed to me to be overdoing the thing. Every
time I dropped off for the moment, a new noise woke me. Each time I woke I missed my coverlet,
and had to reach down to the floor and get it again.

At last all sleepiness forsook me. I recognized the fact that I was hopelessly and permanently
wide awake. Wide awake, and feverish and thirsty. When I had lain tossing there as long as
I could endure it, it occurred to me that it would be a good idea to dress and go out in the
great square and take a refreshing wash in the fountain, and smoke and reflect there until
the remnant of the night was gone.

I believed I could dress in the dark without waking Harris. I had banished my shoes after the
mouse, but my slippers would do for a summer night. So I rose softly, and gradually got on
everything--down to one sock. I couldn't seem to get on the track of that sock, any way I could
fix it. But I had to have it; so I went down on my hands and knees, with one slipper on and
the other in my hand, and began to paw gently around and rake the floor, but with no success.
I enlarged my circle, and went on pawing and raking. With every pressure of my knee, how the
floor creaked! and every time I chanced to rake against any article, it seemed to give out
thirty-five or thirty-six times more noise than it would have done in the daytime. In those
cases I always stopped and held my breath till I was sure Harris had not awakened--then I crept
along again. I moved on and on, but I could not find the sock; I could not seem to find anything
but furniture. I could not remember that there was much furniture in the room when I went to
bed, but the place was alive with it now --especially chairs--chairs everywhere--had a couple
of families moved in, in the mean time? And I never could seem to GLANCE on one of those chairs,
but always struck it full and square with my head. My temper rose, by steady and sure degrees,
and as I pawed on and on, I fell to making vicious comments under my breath.

Finally, with a venomous access of irritation, I said I would leave without the sock; so I
rose up and made straight for the door--as I supposed--and suddenly confronted my dim spectral
image in the unbroken mirror. It startled the breath out of me, for an instant; it also showed
me that I was lost, and had no sort of idea where I was. When I realized this, I was so angry
that I had to sit down on the floor and take hold of something to keep from lifting the roof
off with an explosion of opinion. If there had been only one mirror, it might possibly have
helped to locate me; but there were two, and two were as bad as a thousand; besides, these
were on opposite sides of the room. I could see the dim blur of the windows, but in my turned-around
condition they were exactly where they ought not to be, and so they only confused me instead
of helping me.

I started to get up, and knocked down an umbrella; it made a noise like a pistol-shot when
it struck that hard, slick, carpetless floor; I grated my teeth and held my breath--Harris
did not stir. I set the umbrella slowly and carefully on end against the wall, but as soon
as I took my hand away, its heel slipped from under it, and down it came again with another
bang. I shrunk together and listened a moment in silent fury--no harm done, everything quiet.
With the most painstaking care and nicety, I stood the umbrella up once more, took my hand
away, and down it came again.

I have been strictly reared, but if it had not been so dark and solemn and awful there in that
lonely, vast room, I do believe I should have said something then which could not be put into
a Sunday-school book without injuring the sale of it. If my reasoning powers had not been already
sapped dry by my harassments, I would have known better than to try to set an umbrella on end
on one of those glassy German floors in the dark; it can't be done in the daytime without four
failures to one success. I had one comfort, though--Harris was yet still and silent--he had
not stirred.

The umbrella could not locate me--there were four standing around the room, and all alike.
I thought I would feel along the wall and find the door in that way. I rose up and began this
operation, but raked down a picture. It was not a large one, but it made noise enough for a
panorama. Harris gave out no sound, but I felt that if I experimented any further with the
pictures I should be sure to wake him. Better give up trying to get out. Yes, I would find
King Arthur's Round Table once more--I had already found it several times--and use it for a
base of departure on an exploring tour for my bed; if I could find my bed I could then find
my water pitcher; I would quench my raging thirst and turn in. So I started on my hands and
knees, because I could go faster that way, and with more confidence, too, and not knock down
things. By and by I found the table--with my head--rubbed the bruise a little, then rose up
and started, with hands abroad and fingers spread, to balance myself. I found a chair; then
a wall; then another chair; then a sofa; then an alpenstock, then another sofa; this confounded
me, for I had thought there was only one sofa. I hunted up the table again and took a fresh
start; found some more chairs.

It occurred to me, now, as it ought to have done before, that as the table was round, it was
therefore of no value as a base to aim from; so I moved off once more, and at random among
the wilderness of chairs and sofas--wandering off into unfamiliar regions, and presently knocked
a candlestick and knocked off a lamp, grabbed at the lamp and knocked off a water pitcher with
a rattling crash, and thought to myself, "I've found you at last--I judged I was close upon
you." Harris shouted "murder," and "thieves," and finished with "I'm absolutely drowned."

The crash had roused the house. Mr. X pranced in, in his long night-garment, with a candle,
young Z after him with another candle; a procession swept in at another door, with candles
and lanterns--landlord and two German guests in their nightgowns and a chambermaid in hers.

I looked around; I was at Harris's bed, a Sabbath-day's journey from my own. There was only
one sofa; it was against the wall; there was only one chair where a body could get at it--I
had been revolving around it like a planet, and colliding with it like a comet half the night.

I explained how I had been employing myself, and why. Then the landlord's party left, and the
rest of us set about our preparations for breakfast, for the dawn was ready to break. I glanced
furtively at my pedometer, and found I had made 47 miles. But I did not care, for I had come
out for a pedestrian tour anyway.

CHAPTER XIV

[Rafting Down the Neckar]

When the landlord learned that I and my agents were artists, our party rose perceptibly in
his esteem; we rose still higher when he learned that we were making a pedestrian tour of Europe.

He told us all about the Heidelberg road, and which were the best places to avoid and which
the best ones to tarry at; he charged me less than cost for the things I broke in the night;
he put up a fine luncheon for us and added to it a quantity of great light-green plums, the
pleasantest fruit in Germany; he was so anxious to do us honor that he would not allow us to
walk out of Heilbronn, but called up Goetz von Berlichingen's horse and cab and made us ride. 

It is hard to imitate them exactly."

Jusy was crestfallen. He thought he had learned a new language in half an hour, and he was proud
of it. But no new language was ever learned without more trouble and hard work than that; not
even pigeon English!

*

*

III.

It had come about by chance, Mr. Connor's keeping this pack of hunting cats. He had been greatly
troubled by gophers and rabbits: the gophers killed his trees by gnawing their roots; the rabbits
burrowed under his vines, ate the tender young leaves, and gnawed the stems.

Jim had tried every device,--traps of all kinds and all the poisons he could hear of. He had
also tried drowning the poor little gophers out by pouring water down their holes. But, spite
of all he could do, the whole hill was alive with them. It had been wild ground so long, and
covered so thick with bushes, that it had been like a nice house
built on purpose for all small wild animals to live in.

I suppose
there must have been miles of gophers' underground tunnels, leading
from hole to hole. They popped their heads up, and you saw them scampering
away wherever you went; and in the early morning it was very funny
to see the rabbits jumping and leaping to get off out of sight when
they heard people stirring. They were of a beautiful gray color, with
a short bushy tail, white at the end. On account of this white tip
to their tails, they are called "cotton-tails."

When Mr. Connor first
moved up on the hill, Jim used to shoot a cottontail almost every
day, and some days he shot two. The rabbits, however, are shyer than
the gophers; when they find out that they get shot as soon as they
are seen, and that these men who shoot them have built houses and
mean to stay, they will gradually desert their burrows and move away
to new homes.

The Neckar is in many places so narrow that a person can throw a dog across it, if he has one;
when it is also sharply curved in such places, the raftsman has to do some pretty nice snug
piloting to make the turns. The river is not always allowed to spread over its whole bed--which
is as much as thirty, and sometimes forty yards wide--but is split into three equal bodies
of water, by stone dikes which throw the main volume, depth, and current into the central one.
In low water these neat narrow-edged dikes project four or five inches above the surface, like
the comb of a submerged roof, but in high water they are overflowed. A hatful of rain makes
high water in the Neckar, and a basketful produces an overflow.

There are dikes abreast the Schloss Hotel, and the current is violently swift at that point.
I used to sit for hours in my glass cage, watching the long, narrow rafts slip along through
the central channel, grazing the right-bank dike and aiming carefully for the middle arch of
the stone bridge below; I watched them in this way, and lost all this time hoping to see one
of them hit the bridge-pier and wreck itself sometime or other, but was always disappointed.
One was smashed there one morning, but I had just stepped into my room a moment to light a
pipe, so I lost it.

While I was looking down upon the rafts that morning in Heilbronn, the daredevil spirit of
adventure came suddenly upon me, and I said to my comrades:

"I am going to Heidelberg on a raft. Will you venture with me?"

Their faces paled a little, but they assented with as good a grace as they could. Harris wanted
to cable his mother--thought it his duty to do that, as he was all she had in this world--so,
while he attended to this, I went down to the longest and finest raft and hailed the captain
with a hearty "Ahoy, shipmate!" which put us upon pleasant terms at once, and we entered upon
business. I said we were on a pedestrian tour to Heidelberg, and would like to take passage
with him. I said this partly through young Z, who spoke German very well, and partly through
Mr. X, who spoke it peculiarly. I can UNDERSTAND German as well as the maniac that invented
it, but I TALK it best through an interpreter.

The captain hitched up his trousers, then shifted his quid thoughtfully. Presently he said
just what I was expecting he would say--that he had no license to carry passengers, and therefore
was afraid the law would be after him in case the matter got noised about or any accident happened.
So I CHARTERED the raft and the crew and took all the responsibilities on myself.

With a rattling song the starboard watch bent to their work and hove the cable short, then
got the anchor home, and our bark moved off with a stately stride, and soon was bowling along
at about two knots an hour.

Our party were grouped amidships. I am going to ask Uncle George to build a little house for them
up in the cañon. There is plenty of room there he does not want; and then nobody could drive them
out of that place as long as they live; and I could carry them their dinner every day. Don't you
think he will?"

"Bless your kind little heart!" said Anita. "That would be asking
a great deal of your Uncle George, but he is so kind, perhaps he will.
If somebody does not take compassion on the poor things, they will
starve, that is certain."

Germany, in the summer, is the perfection of the beautiful, but nobody has understood, and
realized, and enjoyed the utmost possibilities of this soft and peaceful beauty unless he has
voyaged down the Neckar on a raft. The motion of a raft is the needful motion; it is gentle,
and gliding, and smooth, and noiseless; it calms down all feverish activities, it soothes to
sleep all nervous hurry and impatience; under its restful influence all the troubles and vexations
and sorrows that harass the mind vanish away, and existence becomes a dream, a charm, a deep
and tranquil ecstasy. How it contrasts with hot and perspiring pedestrianism, and dusty and
deafening railroad rush, and tedious jolting behind tired horses over blinding white roads!

We went slipping silently along, between the green and fragrant banks, with a sense of pleasure
and contentment that grew, and grew, all the time. At the 25th page of the Memoir there is the narration
of an interesting discussion between Lord Byron, Shelley, and others, as to the most perfect ode
that had ever been produced. Shelley contended for Coleridge's on Switzerland; others named
Campbell's Hohenlinden and Lord Byron's Invocation in Manfred. But Lord Byron left the dinner-table
before the cloth was removed, and returned with a magazine, from which he read this monody, which
just then appeared anonymously. And the birds!--they were everywhere; they swept back
and forth across the river constantly, and their jubilant music was never stilled.

It was a deep and satisfying pleasure to see the sun create the new morning, and gradually,
patiently, lovingly, clothe it on with splendor after splendor, and glory after glory, till
the miracle was complete. How different is this marvel observed from a raft, from what it is
when one observes it through the dingy windows of a railway-station in some wretched village
while he munches a petrified sandwich and waits for the train.