 Upon this Michelangelo grew
easy in his mind, partly because he thought he might have confidence, and partly because he
wished the Pope to receive the impression I have described above. In this way the thing was
settled for the time, but it did not end there; for when he had worked his four months in Florence
and came back to Rome, the Pope set him to other tasks, and ordered him to paint the wall above
the altar in the Sistine Chapel. He was a man of excellent judgment in such matters, and had
meditated many different subjects for this fresco. At last he fixed upon the Last Judgment,
considering that the variety and greatness of the theme would enable the illustrious artist
to exhibit his powers in their full extent. Michelangelo, remembering the obligation he was
under to the Duke of Urbino, did all he could to evade this new engagement; but when this proved
impossible, he began to procrastinate, and, pretending to be fully occupied with the cartoons
for his huge picture, he worked in secret at the statues intended for the monument."

VII

Michelangelo's position at Florence was insecure and painful, owing to the undisguised animosity
of the Duke Alessandro. This man ruled like a tyrant of the worst sort, scandalising good citizens
by his brutal immoralities, and terrorising them by his cruelties. "He remained," says Condivi,
"in continual alarm; because the Duke, a young man, as is known to every one, of ferocious
and revengeful temper, hated him exceedingly. There is no doubt that, but for the Pope's protection,
he would have been removed from this world. What added to Alessandro's enmity was that when
he was planning the fortress which he afterwards erected, he sent Messer Vitelli for Michelangelo,
ordering him to ride with them, and to select a proper position for the building. Michelangelo
refused, saying that he had received no commission from the Pope. The Duke waxed very wroth;
and so, through this new grievance added to old grudges and the notorious nature of the Duke,
Michelangelo not unreasonably lived in fear. It was certainly by God's aid that he happened
to be away from Florence when Clement died." Michelangelo was bound under solemn obligations
to execute no work but what the Pope ordered for himself or permitted by the contract with
the heirs of Julius. Therefore he acted in accordance with duty when he refused to advise the
tyrant in this scheme for keeping the city under permanent subjection. The man who had fortified
Florence against the troops of Clement could not assist another bastard Medici to build a strong
place for her ruin. It may be to this period of his life that we owe the following madigral,
written upon the loss of Florentine liberty and the bad conscience of the despot:--

  Lady, for joy of lovers numberless
      Thou wast created fair as angels are.
      Sure God hath fallen asleep in heaven afar
      When one man calls the bliss of many his!
      Give back to streaming eyes
      The daylight of thy face, that seems to shun
      Those who must live defrauded of their bliss!

  Vex not your pure desire with tears and sighs:
      For he who robs you of my light hath none.
      Dwelling in fear, sin hath no happiness;
      Since, amid those who love, their joy is less,
      Whose great desire great plenty still curtails,
      Than theirs who, poor, have hope that never fails.

During the siege Michelangelo had been forced to lend the Signory a sum of about 1500 ducats.
In the summer of 1533 he corresponded with Sebastiano about means for recovering this loan.
On the 16th of August Sebastiano writes that he has referred the matter to the Pope. "I repeat,
what I have already written, that I presented your memorial to his Holiness. It was about eight
in the evening, and the Florentine ambassador was present. The Pope then ordered the ambassador
to write immediately to the Duke; and this he did with such vehemence and passion as I do not
think he has displayed on four other occasions concerning the affairs of Florence. His rage
and fury were tremendous, and the words he used to the ambassador would stupefy you, could
you hear them. Indeed, they are not fit to be written down, and I must reserve them for viva
voce. I burn to have half an hour's conversation with you, for now I know our good and holy
master to the ground. Enough, I think you must have already seen something of the sort. In
brief, he has resolved that you are to be repaid the 400 ducats of the guardianship and the
500 ducats lent to the old Government." It may be readily imagined that this restitution of
a debt incurred by Florence when she was fighting for her liberties, to which act of justice
her victorious tyrant was compelled by his Papal kinsman, did not soften Alessandro's bad feeling
for the creditor.

Several of Sebastiano's letters during the summer and autumn of 1533 refer to an edition of
some madrigals by Michelangelo, which had been set to music by Bartolommeo Tromboncino, Giacomo
Archadelt, and Costanzo Festa. We have every reason to suppose that the period we have now
reached was the richest in poetical compositions. It was also in 1532 or 1533 that he formed
the most passionate attachment of which we have any knowledge in his life; for he became acquainted
about this time with Tommaso Cavalieri. A few years later he was destined to meet with Vittoria
Colonna. The details of these two celebrated friendships will be discussed in another chapter.

Clement VII. journeyed from Rome in September, intending to take ship at Leghorn for Nice and
afterwards Marseilles, where his young cousin, Caterina de' Medici, was married to the Dauphin.
He had to pass through S. Miniato al Tedesco, and thither Michelangelo went to wait upon him
on the 22nd. This was the last, and not the least imposing, public act of the old Pope, who,
six years after his imprisonment and outrage in the Castle of S. Angelo, was now wedding a
daughter of his plebeian family to the heir of the French crown. What passed between Michelangelo
and his master on this occasion is not certain.

The years 1532-1534 form a period of considerable chronological perplexity in Michelangelo's
life. This is in great measure due to the fact that he was now residing regularly part of the
year in Rome and part in Florence. We have good reason to believe that he went to Rome in September
1532, and stayed there through the winter. It is probable that he then formed the friendship
with Cavalieri, which played so important a part in his personal history. A brisk correspondence
carried on between him and his two friends, Bartolommeo Angelini and Sebastiano del Piombo,
shows that he resided at Florence during the summer and early autumn of 1533. From a letter
addressed to Figiovanni on the 15th of October, we learn that he was then impatient to leave
Florence for Rome. But a Ricordo, bearing date October 29, 1533, renders it almost certain
that he had not then started. Angelini's letters, which had been so frequent, stop suddenly
in that month. This renders it almost certain that Michelangelo must have soon returned to
Rome. Strangely enough there are no letters or Ricordi in his handwriting which bear the date
1534. When we come to deal with this year, 1534, we learn from Michelangelo's own statement
to Vasari that he was in Florence during the summer, and that he reached Rome two days before
the death of Clement VII., i.e., upon September 23. Condivi observes that it was lucky for
him that the Pope did not die while he was still at Florence, else he would certainly have
been exposed to great peril, and probably been murdered or imprisoned by Duke Alessandro.

Nevertheless, Michelangelo was again in Florence toward the close of 1534. An undated letter
to a certain Febo (di Poggio) confirms this supposition. It may probably be referred to the
month of December. In it he says that he means to leave Florence next day for Pisa and Rome,
and that he shall never return. Febo's answer, addressed to Rome, is dated January 14, 1534,
which, according to Florentine reckoning, means 1535.

We may take it, then, as sufficiently well ascertained that Michelangelo departed from Florence
before the end of 1534, and that he never returned during the remainder of his life. There
is left, however, another point of importance referring to this period, which cannot be satisfactorily
cleared up. We do not know the exact date of his father, Lodovico's, death. It must have happened
either in 1533 or in 1534. In spite of careful researches, no record of the event has yet been
discovered, either at Settignano or in the public offices of Florence. The documents of the
Buonarroti family yield no direct information on the subject. We learn, however, from the Libri
delle Età, preserved at the Archivio di Stato, that Lodovico di Lionardo di Buonarrota Simoni
was born upon the 11th of June 1444. Now Michelangelo, in his poem on Lodovico's death, says
very decidedly that his father was ninety when he breathed his last. If we take this literally,
it must be inferred that he died after the middle of June 1534. There are many reasons for
supposing that Michelangelo was in Florence when this happened. The chief of these is that
no correspondence passed between the Buonarroti brothers on the occasion, while Michelangelo's
minutes regarding the expenses of his father's burial seem to indicate that he was personally
responsible for their disbursement. I may finally remark that the schedule of property belonging
to Michelangelo, recorded under the year 1534 in the archives of the Decima at Florence, makes
no reference at all to Lodovico. We conclude from it that, at the time of its redaction, Michelangelo
must have succeeded to his father's estate.

The death of Lodovico and Buonarroto, happening within a space of little more than five years,
profoundly affected Michelangelo's mind, and left an indelible mark of sadness on his life.
One of his best poems, a capitolo, or piece of verse in terza rima stanzas, was written on
the occasion of his father's decease. In it he says that Lodovico had reached the age of ninety.
If this statement be literally accurate, the old man must have died in 1534, since he was born
upon the 11th of June 1444. But up to the present time, as I have observed above, the exact
date of his death has not been discovered. One passage of singular and solemn beauty may be
translated from the original:--

  Thou'rt dead of dying, and art made divine,
     Nor fearest now to change or life or will;
     Scarce without envy can I call this thine.
  Fortune and time beyond your temple-sill
     Dare not advance, by whom is dealt for us
     A doubtful gladness, and too certain ill.
  Cloud is there none to dim you glorious:
     The hours distinct compel you not to fade:
     Nor chance nor fate o'er you are tyrannous.
  Your splendour with the night sinks not in shade,
     Nor grows with day, howe'er that sun ride high
     Which on our mortal hearts life's heat hath rayed.
  Thus from thy dying I now learn to die,
     Dear father mine! In thought I see thy place,
     Where earth but rarely lets men climb the sky.
  Not, as some deem, is death the worst disgrace
     For one whose last day brings him to the first,
     The next eternal throne to God's by grace.
  There by God's grace I trust that thou art nursed,
     And hope to find thee, If but my cold heart
     High reason draw from earthly slime accursed.

CHAPTER X

I

The collegiate church of S. Lorenzo at Florence had long been associated with the Medicean
family, who were its most distinguished benefactors, Giovanni d'Averardo de' Medici, together
with the heads of six other Florentine houses, caused it to be rebuilt at the beginning of
the fifteenth century. He took upon himself the entire costs of the sacristy and one chapel;
it was also owing to his suggestion that Filippo Brunelleschi, in the year 1421, designed the
church and cloister as they now appear. When he died, Giovanni was buried in its precincts,
while his son Cosimo de' Medici, the father of his country, continued these benevolences, and
bestowed a capital of 40,000 golden florins on the Chapter. He too was buried in the church,
a simple monument in the sacristy being erected to his memory. Lorenzo the Magnificent followed
in due course, and found his last resting-place at S. Lorenzo.

We have seen in a previous chapter how and when Leo X. conceived the idea of adding a chapel
which should serve as mausoleum for several members of the Medicean family at S. Lorenzo, and
how Clement determined to lodge the famous Medicean library in a hall erected over the west
side of the cloister. Both of these undertakings, as well as the construction of a façade for
the front of the church, were assigned to Michelangelo. The ground plan of the monumental chapel
corresponds to Brunelleschi's sacristy, and is generally known as the Sagrestia Nuova. Internally
Buonarroti altered its decorative panellings, and elevated the vaulting of the roof into a
more ambitious cupola. This portion of the edifice was executed in the rough during his residence
at Florence. The façade was never begun in earnest, and remains unfinished. The library was
constructed according to his designs, and may be taken, on the whole, as a genuine specimen
of his style in architecture.

The books which Clement lodged there were the priceless manuscripts brought together by Cosimo
de' Medici in the first enthusiasm of the Revival, at that critical moment when the decay of
the Eastern Empire transferred the wrecks of Greek literature from Constantinople to Italy.
Cosimo built a room to hold them in the Convent of S. Marco, which Flavio Biondo styled the
first library opened for the use of scholars. Lorenzo the Magnificent enriched the collection
with treasures acquired during his lifetime, buying autographs wherever it was possible to
find them, and causing copies to be made. In the year 1508 the friars of S. Marco sold this
inestimable store of literary documents, in order to discharge the debts contracted by them
during their ill-considered interference in the state affairs of the Republic. It was purchased
for the sum of 2652 ducats by the Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici, a second son of Lorenzo the
Magnificent, and afterwards Pope Leo X. He transferred them to his Roman villa, where the collection
was still further enlarged by all the rarities which a prince passionate for literature and
reckless in expenditure could there assemble. Leo's cousin and executor, Giulio de' Medici,
Pope Clement VII., fulfilled his last wishes by transferring them to Florence, and providing
the stately receptacle in which they still repose.

The task assigned to Michelangelo, when he planned the library, was not so simple as that of
the new sacristy. Some correspondence took place before the west side of the cloister was finally
decided on. What is awkward in the approach to the great staircase must be ascribed to the
difficulty of fitting this building into the old edifice; and probably, if Michelangelo had
carried out the whole work, a worthier entrance from the piazza into the loggia, and from the
loggia into the vestibule, might have been devised.

II

Vasari, in a well-known passage of his Life of Michelangelo, reports the general opinion of
his age regarding the novelties introduced by Buonarroti into Italian architecture. The art
of building was in a state of transition. Indeed, it cannot be maintained that the Italians,
after they abandoned the traditions of the Romanesque manner, advanced with certitude on any
line of progress in this art. Their work, beautiful as it often is, ingenious as it almost
always is, marked invariably by the individuality of the district and the builder, seems to
be tentative, experimental. The principles of the Pointed Gothic style were never seized or
understood by Italian architects. Even such cathedrals as those of Orvieto and Siena are splendid
monuments of incapacity, when compared with the Romanesque churches of Pisa, S. Miniato, S.
Zenone at Verona, the Cathedral of Parma. The return from Teutonic to Roman standards of taste,
which marked the advent of humanism, introduced a hybrid manner. This, in its first commencement,
was extremely charming. The buildings of Leo Battista Alberti, of Brunelleschi, and of Bramante
are distinguished by an exquisite purity and grace combined with picturesqueness. No edifice
in any style is more stately, and at the same time more musical in linear proportions, than
the Church of S. Andrea at Mantua. The Cappella dei Pazzi and the Church of S. Spirito at Florence
are gems of clear-cut and harmonious dignity. The courtyard of the Cancelleria at Rome, the
Duomo at Todi, show with what supreme ability the great architect of Casteldurante blended
sublimity with suavity, largeness and breadth with naïveté and delicately studied detail. But
these first endeavours of the Romantic spirit to assimilate the Classic mannerism--essays no
less interesting than those of Boiardo in poetry, of Botticelli in painting, of Donatello and
Omodei in sculpture--all of them alike, whether buildings, poems, paintings, or statues, displaying
the genius of the Italic race, renascent, recalcitrant against the Gothic style, while still
to some extent swayed by its influence (at one and the same time both Christian and chivalrous,
Pagan and precociously cynical; yet charmingly fresh, unspoiled by dogma, uncontaminated by
pedantry)--these first endeavours of the Romantic spirit to assimilate the Classic mannerism
could not create a new style representative of the national life. They had the fault inherent
in all hybrids, however fanciful and graceful. They were sterile and unprocreative. The warring
elements, so deftly and beautifully blent in them, began at once to fall asunder. The San Galli
attempted to follow classical precedent with stricter severity. Some buildings of their school
may still be reckoned among the purest which remain to prove the sincerity of the Revival of
Learning. The Sansovini exaggerated the naïveté of the earlier Renaissance manner, and pushed
its picturesqueness over into florid luxuriance or decorative detail. Meanwhile, humanists
and scholars worked slowly but steadily upon the text of Vitruvius, impressing the paramount
importance of his theoretical writings upon practical builders. Neither students nor architects
reflected that they could not understand Vitruvius; that, if they could understand him, it
was by no means certain he was right; and that, if he was right for his own age, he would not
be right for the sixteenth century after Christ. It was just at this moment, when Vitruvius
began to dominate the Italian imagination, that Michelangelo was called upon to build. The
genial adaptation of classical elements to modern sympathies and uses, which had been practised
by Alberti, Brunelleschi, Bramante, yielded now to painful efforts after the appropriation
of pedantic principles. Instead of working upon antique monuments with their senses and emotions,
men approached them through the medium of scholastic erudition. Instead of seeing and feeling
for themselves, they sought by dissection to confirm the written precepts of a defunct Roman
writer. This diversion of a great art from its natural line of development supplies a striking
instance of the fascination which authority exercises at certain periods of culture. Rather
than trust their feeling for what was beautiful and useful, convenient and attractive, the
Italians of the Renaissance surrendered themselves to learning. Led by the spirit of scholarship,
they thought it their duty to master the text of Vitruvius, to verify his principles by the
analysis of surviving antique edifices, and, having formed their own conception of his theory,
to apply this, as well as they were able, to the requirements of contemporary life.

Two exits from the false situation existed: one was the picturesqueness of the Barocco style;
the other was the specious vapid purity of the Palladian. Michelangelo, who was essentially
the genius of this transition, can neither be ascribed to the Barocco architects, although
he called them into being, nor yet can he be said to have arrived at the Palladian solution.
He held both types within himself in embryo, arriving at a moment of profound and complicated
difficulty for the practical architect; without technical education, but gifted with supreme
genius, bringing the imperious instincts of a sublime creative amateur into every task appointed
him. We need not wonder if a man of his calibre left the powerful impress of his personality
upon an art in chaos, luring lesser craftsmen into the Barocco mannerism, while he provoked
reaction in the stronger, who felt more scientifically what was needed to secure firm standing-ground.
Bernini and the superb fountain of Trevi derive from Michelangelo on one side; Vignola's cold
classic profiles and Palladio's resuscitation of old Rome in the Palazzo della Ragione at Vicenza
emerge upon the other. It remained Buonarroti's greatest-glory that, lessoned by experience
and inspired for high creation by the vastness of the undertaking, he imagined a world's wonder
in the cupola of S. Peter's.

III

Writing in the mid-stream of this architectural regurgitation, Vasari explains what contemporaries
thought about Michelangelo's innovations. "He wished to build the new sacristy upon the same
lines as the older one by Brunelleschi, but at the same time to clothe the edifice with a different
style of decoration. Accordingly, he invented for the interior a composite adornment, of the
newest and most varied manner which antique and modern masters joined together could have used.
The novelty of his style consisted in those lovely cornices, capitals, basements, doors, niches,
and sepulchres which transcended all that earlier builders, working by measurements, distribution
of parts, and rule, had previously effected, following Vitruvius and the ancient relics. Such
men were afraid to supplement tradition with original invention. The license he introduced
gave great courage to those who studied his method, and emboldened them to follow on his path.
Since that time, new freaks of fancy have been seen, resembling the style of arabesque and
grotesque more than was consistent with tradition. For this emancipation of the art, all craftsmen
owe him an infinite and everduring debt of gratitude, since he at one blow broke down the bands
and chains which barred the path they trod in common."

If I am right in thus interpreting an unusually incoherent passage of Vasari's criticism, no
words could express more clearly the advent of Barocco mannerism. But Vasari proceeds to explain
his meaning with still greater precision. Afterwards he made a plainer demonstration of his
intention in the library of S. Lorenzo, by the splendid distribution of the windows, the arrangement
of the upper chamber, and the marvellous entrance-hall into that enclosed building.

"The grace and charm of art were never seen more perfectly displayed in the whole and in the
parts of any edifice than here. I may refer in particular to the corbels, the recesses for
statues, and the cornices. The staircase, too, deserves attention for its convenience, with
the eccentric breakage of its flights of steps; the whole construction being so altered from
the common usage of other architects as to excite astonishment in all who see it."

What emerges with distinctness from Vasari's account of Michelangelo's work at S. Lorenzo is
that a practical Italian architect, who had been engaged on buildings of importance since this
work was carried out, believed it to have infused freedom and new vigour into architecture.
That freedom and new vigour we now know to have implied the Barocco style.

IV

In estimating Michelangelo's work at S. Lorenzo, we must not forget that at this period of
his life he contemplated statuary, bronze bas-relief, and painting, as essential adjuncts to
architecture. The scheme is, therefore, not so much constructive as decorative, and a great
many of its most offensive qualities may be ascribed to the fact that the purposes for which
it was designed have been omitted. We know that the façade of S. Lorenzo was intended to abound
in bronze and marble carvings. Beside the Medicean tombs, the sacristy ought to have contained
a vast amount of sculpture, and its dome was actually painted in fresco by Giovanni da Udine
under Michelangelo's own eyes. It appears that his imagination still obeyed those leading principles
which he applied in the rough sketch for the first sepulchre of Julius. The vestibule and staircase
of the library cannot therefore be judged fairly now; for if they had been finished according
to their maker's plan, the faults of their construction would have been compensated by multitudes
of plastic shapes. 

Vol. IX, p. 301.

"Philip Seymour" or "Pioneer Life in Richland County" by Rev. James F. McGraw.

"The Quest of John Chapman" by Newell Dwight Hillis.

WHY STUDY BIRDS?

A Cincinnati teacher in one of the big intermediate schools recently
discussed with her class the question of studying birds.

She reminded them that they are city children living in a densely populated district, and that
they could hardly expect to see the live birds unless they went into the country, but agreed
to forming a bird-study class if the children could give good reasons for doing so.

One child called attention to the fact that they read and studied about many things all over
the world that they never hoped to see, why not about birds also? One boy thought it just as
necessary for city children to know what was to be seen in the country, as for country children
to know what could be seen in the city. There were other reasons
offered equally as good, but behind it all was a real live desire,
a natural desire, that need give no reasons for its existence, to
learn something about the wild birds. The teacher saw this, and being
one who realizes that schools are maintained for the benefit of children
rather than that children are born and reared to serve a school system,
consented to the organization of a Junior Audubon Class.

Bird study
in some measure should be given to every class in every school, city
and country.

V

In this new style, so much belauded by Vasari, the superficial design is often rich and grandiose,
making a strong pictorial appeal to the imagination. Meanwhile, the organic laws of structure
have been sacrificed; and that chaste beauty which emerges from a perfectly harmonious distribution
of parts, embellished by surface decoration only when the limbs and members of the building
demand emphasis, may be sought for everywhere in vain. The substratum is a box, a barn, an
inverted bottle; built up of rubble, brick, and concrete; clothed with learned details, which
have been borrowed from the pseudo-science of the humanist. There is nothing here of divine
Greek candour, of dominant Roman vigour, of Gothic vitality, of fanciful invention governed
by a sincere sense of truth. Nothing remains of the shy graces, the melodious simplicities,
the pure seeking after musical proportion, which marked the happier Italian effort of the early
Renaissance, through Brunelleschi and Alberti, Bramante, Giuliano da Sangallo, and Peruzzi.
Architecture, in the highest sense of that word, has disappeared. A scenic scheme of panelling
for empty walls has superseded the conscientious striving to construct a living and intelligible
whole.

The fault inherent in Italian building after the close of the Lombard period, reaches its climax
here. That fault was connected with the inability of the Italians to assimilate the true spirit
of the Gothic style, while they attempted its imitation in practice. The fabrication of imposing
and lovely façades at Orvieto, at Siena, at Cremona, and at Crema, glorious screens which masked
the poverty of the edifice, and corresponded in no point to the organism of the structure,
taught them to overrate mere surface-beauty. Their wonderful creativeness in all the arts which
can be subordinated to architectural effect seduced them further. Nothing, for instance, taken
by itself alone, can be more satisfactory than the façade of the Certosa at Pavia; but it is
not, like the front of Chartres or Rheims or Amiens, a natural introduction to the inner sanctuary.
At the end of the Gothic period architecture had thus come to be conceived as the art of covering
shapeless structures with a wealth of arabesques in marble, fresco, bronze, mosaic.

The revival of learning and a renewed interest in the antique withdrew the Italians for a short
period from this false position. With more or less of merit, successive builders, including
those I have above mentioned, worked in a pure style: pure because it obeyed the laws of its
own music, because it was intelligible and self-consistent, aiming at construction as the main
end, subordinating decoration of richer luxuriance or of sterner severity to the prime purpose
of the total scheme. But this style was too much the plaything of particular minds to create
a permanent tradition. It varied in the several provinces of Italy, and mingled personal caprice
with the effort to assume a classic garb. Meanwhile the study of Vitruvius advanced, and that
pedantry which infected all the learned movements of the Renaissance struck deep and venomous
roots into the art of building.

Michelangelo arrived at the moment I am attempting to indicate. He protested that architecture
was not his trade. Over and over again he repeated this to his Medicean patrons; but they compelled
him to build, and he applied himself with the predilections and prepossessions of a plastic
artist to the task. The result was a retrogression from the point reached by his immediate
predecessors to the vicious system followed by the pseudo-Gothic architects in Italy. That
is to say, he treated the structure as an inert mass, to be made as substantial as possible,
and then to be covered with details agreeable to the eye. At the beginning of his career he
had a defective sense of the harmonic ratios upon which a really musical building may be constructed
out of mere bricks and mortar--such, for example, as the Church of S. Giustina at Padua. He
was overweighted with ill-assimilated erudition; and all the less desirable licenses of Brunelleschi's
school, especially in the abuse of square recesses, he adopted without hesitation. It never
seems to have occurred to him that doors which were intended for ingress and egress, windows
which were meant to give light, and attics which had a value as the means of illumination from
above, could not with any propriety be applied to the covering of blank dead spaces in the
interiors of buildings.

