The South and the National Government

By The Honorable William Howard Taft President-elect of the United States

An Address Delivered at the Dinner of the North Carolina Society of New York, at the Hotel
Astor, December 7, 1908

%Introduction%

The speech of the President-Elect at the recent annual banquet of the North Carolina Society,
New York, found a warm response in the hearts of the Northern people, who have not failed to
sympathize deeply with their Southern fellow citizens during their long years of affliction.

The orator expresses our feelings with rare felicity, and so keenly did his sentiments touch
our hearts, it was resolved to publish his address and send it to our fellow citizens of the
South as the messenger of peace and perfect reunion from their Northern countrymen.

Our Southern friends will note that no phase of the present unfortunate situation is neglected
by Mr. Taft; all are dealt with in a clear and masterly manner. The North, as well as the South
is enlightened as to their respective duties toward bringing about the desirable return of
the South to its normal condition politically, so that American citizens in all sections of
our common country will again belong to both of the great political parties, thus proving to
the world that both parties command the allegiance of good citizens in all parts of the country
who are desirous only for what they believe to be best for the good of the nation as a whole.

The future President of our common country, North, South, East, and West, who appeals to us,
is a man of large heart, warm sympathies, and cool brain, of sound judgment and lofty purpose,
who has at heart as one of the greatest possible triumphs of his administration the restoration
of normal political conditions in the South. Under his wise and sympathetic leadership the
writer is sanguine of success--certain of it if the influential people of all sections give
him the support he so richly deserves in this truly patriotic mission. But here, as everywhere
else, we are patriotic men; and we North Carolinians have as our background a community that
from the first showed a singularly independent temper. A freedom of opinion is our heritage.
We once drove a Colonial Governor who disputed our freedom of political action to the safer
shelter of the Colony of New York; and throughout our history we have shown a sort of passion
for independent action, in spite of occasional eclipses; and that same temper shows itself
now. We are, in fact, never sure that we are right till half our neighbors have proved that
we are wrong.

We are, therefore, and have long been, much distressed by the political solidity of the states
of Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania; and we wish that it were broken--not for
the sake of the Democratic party nor for the sake of the Republican party (for the breach would
benefit each alike) but for the sake of greater freedom of political action by our unfortunate
fellow citizens who dwell there. Where one party has too long and secure power it becomes intolerant
and the other party falls into contempt. Thus these states have become stagnant or corrupt.
For the sake of free political action we wish that their political solidity might be broken,
so that the whole conscience and character of their people might find full political expression.
What constructive influence have they, or have they in recent years had, in the nation's thought
and political progress?

For the same reasons we have taken an especial pleasure in the recent breaking up of Ohio,
Minnesota, and Indiana--where on the same day presidential electors of one party and governors
of the other party were chosen; for this breaking asunder of party dominance makes both parties
tolerant and careful, helping them both and showing the utmost freedom of political action.
And these states contribute much to our political life.

By the same token we rush in where Texas and Virginia fear to tread, and we shall welcome the
impending and inevitable breaking of the Solid South (perhaps we shall lead it), not for the
sake of the Democratic party nor for the sake of the Republican party (although it would help
each party equally), but for the sake of open-mindedness and of freedom of political action,
so that all men there may walk by thought and not by formulas, and act by convictions and not
by traditions. Where-ever one party by long power breeds intolerance, the other falls into
contempt. And what constructive influence have the Southern States in our larger political
life? From some of them, where parties have fallen low, we have seen men go to one national
convention as a mere unthinking personal following of a candidate even then clad in garments
of twofold defeat; and to the conventions of the other party we have sometimes seen office-holding
shepherds with their crooks drive their mottled flocks to market. We are tired of this political
inefficiency, this long isolation, and these continued scandals; and we are tired of the conditions
that produce them. If parties are to be instruments of civilized government, the conditions
that produce such scandals must cease. We must have in the South a Democratic party of tolerance
and a Republican party of character; and neither party must be ranged on lines of race.

We aspire to a higher part in the Republic than can be played by men of closed minds or of
unthinking habits or by organized ignorance. We aspire again to a share in the constructive
work of the government in these stirring days of great tasks at home and growing influence abroad.

I am leaving party politics severely alone, but I am speaking to a national and patriotic theme.
A Republican Administration or a Democratic Administration is a passing incident in our national
history. Parties themselves shift and wane. And any party's supremacy is of little moment in
comparison with the isolation of a large part of the Union from its proper political influence.

The manhood and the energy and the ambition of Southern men now find effective political expression
through neither party. The South, therefore, neither contributes to the Nation's political
thought and influence nor receives stimulation from the Nation's thought and influence. Its
real patriotism counts for nothing--is smothered dumb under party systems that have become
crimes against the character and the intelligence of the people. The South gives nothing and
receives nothing from the increasing national political achievement of every decade. Politically
it is yet a province; and we are tired of this barren seclusion. Men who prefer complaint to
achievement may regard this as treason: let them make the most of it. We prefer a higher station
in the Union than New Hampshire and Vermont and Pennsylvania and Arkansas hold.

From the first our commonwealth conspicuously stood for something greater than any party, something
that antedates all our parties, that spirit of independence in political judgment and action
which brought the old thirteen states into being and made the Republic possible. And that spirit
is not dead yet.

If it cannot regain its old-time influence through one party, it will regain it through another.

We are the descendants of men who fashioned parties in their beginning; and, if need be, we
can refashion them. For the aim of government is not to preserve parties but to give range
to free individual action in a democracy. And it is in this spirit of national aspiration that
we welcome our distinguished guest of honor--a man now placed above parties, and too just to
regard the Republic by sections, our best equipped citizen for the highest office in the world.
It offers, therefore, a suitable subject for the discussion planned for this evening, and I
count it a privilege to be present to hear it. One, in any degree responsible for the government
and welfare of the whole country at this time in her history, must take an especial interest
in the trend of public opinion and the conditions, material and political, of the South.

The laws of the United States have equal operation from the Canadian border to the Gulf of
Mexico. Congress has representatives from every part of the country, including the South, whose
votes are recorded upon national legislation. Railroads do not break bulk between North and
South. Interstate commerce goes on unvexed between the one and the other. The Post-office department
distributes its mail with impartiality on each side of Mason's and Dixon's Line. Prosperity
in the North is accompanied by prosperity in the South, and a halt in the one means a halt
in the other. Northern people meet Southern people, and find them friendly and charming and
full of graceful and grateful companionship. 

The 27th day of May.--The central revolutionary committee. --The municipal body displaced and
then restored.--Henriot, commanding general.

It is a tragicomic drama in three acts, each winding up with a coup de théâtre, always the same
and always foreseen. Legendre, one of the principal stage hands, has taken care to announce
beforehand that,

"If this lasts any longer," said he, at the Cordeliers club,[34128] "if the 'Mountain' remains
quiet any longer, I shall call in the people, and tell the galleries to come down and take part
with us in the deliberations."

At first, on the 27th of May, in relation to the arrest of Hébert and his companions, the "Mountain,"
supported by the galleries, becomes furious.[34129] In vain does the majority again and again
demonstrate its numerical superiority. "We shall resist," says Danton, "so long as there are a
hundred true citizens to help us."--"President," exclaims Marat to Isnard, you are a tyrant! a despicable
tyrant!"--"I demand," says Couthon, "that the President be impeached!"--"Off with the President
to the Abbaye!"--The "Mountain" has decided that he shall not preside; it springs from the
benches and rushes at him, shouts "death to him," becomes hoarse with its vociferations, and
compels him to leave the chair through weariness and exhaustion. It drives out his successor,
Fonfrède, in the same manner, and ends by putting Hérault-Séchelles, one of its own accomplices,
in the chair.--Meanwhile, at the entrance of the Convention, "the regulations have been violated";
a crowd of armed men "have spread through the passages and obstructed
the approaches"; the deputies, Meillan, Chiappe and Lydon, on attempting
to leave, are arrested, Lydon being stopped "by the point of a saber
at his breast,"[34130] while the leaders on the inside encourage,
protect and justify their trusty aids outdoors.--Marat, with his usual
audacity, on learning that Raffet, the commandant, was clearing the
passages, comes to him "with a pistol in his hand and puts him under
arrest,"[34131] on the ground that the people and its sacred rights
of petition and the petitioners must be respected. These consequences we are to recognize as a condition and a fact,
and a problem for solution rather than as an occasion for crimination or recrimination.

Over the question of the extension of slavery the Civil War came, and that contest developed
a heroism on both sides, in the people from the North and the people from the South, that evokes
the admiration of all Americans for American courage, self-sacrifice, and patriotism. But when
slavery was abolished by the war the excision of the cancer left a wound that must necessarily
be a long time in healing. Nearly 5,000,000 slaves were freed; but 5 per cent. of them could
read or write; a much smaller percentage were skilled laborers. They were but as children in
meeting the stern responsibilities of life as free men. As such they had to be absorbed into
and adjusted to our civilization. It was a radical change, full of discouragement and obstacles.
Their rights were declared by the war Amendments, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth.
The one established their freedom; the second their citizenship and their rights to pursue
happiness and hold property; and the third their right not to be discriminated against in their
political privileges on account of their color or previous condition of servitude.

I am not going to rehearse the painful history of reconstruction, or what followed it. I come
at once to the present condition of things, stated from a constitutional and political standpoint.
And that is this: That in all the Southern States it is possible, by election laws prescribing
proper qualifications for the suffrage, which square with the Fifteenth Amendment and which
shall be equally administered as between the black and white races, to prevent entirely the
possibility of a domination of Southern state, county, or municipal governments by an ignorant
electorate, white or black. It is further true that the sooner such laws, when adopted, are
applied with exact equality and justice to the two races, the better for the moral tone of
state and community concerned. Negroes should be given an opportunity equally with whites,
by education and thrift, to meet the requirements of eligibility which the State Legislatures
in their wisdom shall lay down in order to secure the safe exercise of the electoral franchise.
The Negro should ask nothing other than an equal chance to qualify himself for the franchise,
and when that is granted by law, and not denied by executive discrimination, he has nothing
to complain of.

The proposal to repeal the Fifteenth Amendment is utterly impracticable and should be relegated
to the limbo of forgotten issues. It is very certain that any party founded on the proposition
would utterly fail in a national canvass. What we are considering is something practical, something
that means attainable progress. It seems to me to follow, therefore, that there is, or ought
to be, a common ground upon which we can all stand in respect to the race question in the South,
and its political bearing, that takes away any justification for maintaining the continued
solidity of the South to prevent the so-called Negro domination. The fear that in some way
or other a social equality between the races shall be enforced by law or brought about by political
measures really has no foundation except in the imagination of those who fear such a result.
The Federal Government has nothing to do with social equality. The war amendments do not declare
in favor of social equality. All that the law or Constitution attempt to secure is equality
of opportunity before the law and in the pursuit of happiness, and in the enjoyment of life,
liberty, and property. Social equality is something that grows out of voluntary concessions
by the individuals forming society.

With the elimination of the race question, can we say that there are removed all the reasons
why the people of the South are reluctant to give up their political solidarity and divide
themselves on party lines in accordance with their economic and political views? No. There
are other reasons, perhaps only reasons of sentiment, but with the Southern people, who are
a high-strung, sensitive, and outspoken people, considerations of sentiment are frequently
quite as strong as those of some political or economic character. In the first place it is
now nearly forty years since the South acquired its political solidarity, and the intensity
of feeling by which it was maintained, and the ostracism and social proscription imposed on
those white Southerners who did not sympathize with the necessity for such solidarity, could
not but make lasting impression and create a permanent bias that would naturally outlast the
reason for its original existence. The trials of the reconstruction period, the heat of the
political controversies with the Republican party, all naturally, during the forty years, implanted
so deep a feeling in the Southern Democratic breast that a mere change of the conditions under
which this feeling was engendered could not at once remove it. The Southern people are a homogeneous
people; they preserve their traditions; they are of the purest American stock; and the faith
of the father is handed down to the son, even after the cause of it has ceased, almost as a
sacred legacy.

Again, for a long time succeeding the war, the South continued poor. Its development was much
slower than that of the rest of the country. Prosperity seemed to be Northern prosperity, not
Southern. And, in such a time, the trials of life of the present only accentuated the greater
trials of the past, and reminiscences of the dreadful sufferings and privations of the war
were present on every hand, and feelings that the controversy had given rise to, remained with
an intensity that hardly seemed to be dimmed by passing time.

But times change, and men change with them in any community, however fixed its thoughts or
habits, and many circumstances have blessed us with their influence in this matter.

The growth of the South since 1890 has been marvelous. The manufacturing capital in 1880 was
$250,000,000, in 1890, $650,000,000, in 1900, $1,150,000,000 and in 1908, $2,100,000,000, while
the value of the manufactures increased from $450,000,000, in 1880 to $900,000,000 in 1890,
to $1,450,000,000 in 1900, and to $2,600,000,000, in 1908. The farm products in 1880 were $660,000,000,
in 1890 were $770,000,000, in 1900, $1,270,000,000, in 1908 $2,220,000,000. The exports from
the South in 1880 were $260,000,000, in 1890 $306,000,000, in 1900, $484,000,000, and in 1908,
$648,000,000.

In this marvelous growth the manufactures of the South now exceed the agricultural products,
and thus a complete change has come over the character of her industries. The South has become
rich, and only the surface of her wealth has been scratched. Her growth has exceeded that of
the rest of the country, and she is now in every way sharing in its prosperity.

Again, the Democratic party has not preserved inviolate its traditional doctrines as to state's
rights and other issues, and has for the time adopted new doctrines of possibly doubtful economic
truth and wisdom. Southern men, adhering to the party and the name, find themselves, through
the influence of tradition and the fear of a restoration of conditions which are now impossible,
supporting a platform and candidate whose political and economic theories they distrust. Under
these conditions there was in the last campaign, and there is to-day throughout the South,
among many of its most intelligent citizens, an impatience, a nervousness, and a restlessness
in voting for one ticket and rejoicing in the success of another.

Now, I am not one of those who are disposed to criticize or emphasize the inconsistency of
the position in which these gentlemen find themselves. I believe it would be wiser if all who
sympathize with one party and its principles were to vote its ticket, but I can readily understand
the weight and inertia of the tradition and the social considerations that make them hesitate.
I believe that the movement away from political solidity has started, and ought to be encouraged,
and I think one way to encourage it is to have the South understand that the attitude of the
North and the Republican party toward it is not one of hostility or criticism or opposition,
political or otherwise; that they believe in the maintenance of the Fifteenth Amendment; but
that, as already explained, they do not deem that amendment to be inconsistent with the South's
obtaining and maintaining what it regards as its political safety from domination of an ignorant
electorate; that the North yearns for closer association with the South; that its citizens
deprecate that reserve on the subject of politics which so long has been maintained in the
otherwise delightful social relations between Southerners and Northerners as they are more
and more frequently thrown together.

In welcoming to a change of party affiliation many Southerners who have been Democrats, we
are brought face to face with a delicate situation which we can only meet with frankness and
justice. In our anxiety to bring the Democratic Southerner into new political relations we
should have and can have no desire to pass by or ignore the comparatively few white Southerners
who from principle have consistently stood for our views in the South when it cost them social
ostracism and a loss of all prestige. Nor can we sympathize with an effort to exclude from
the support of Republicanism in the South or to read out of the party those colored voters
who by their education and thrift have made themselves eligible to exercise the electoral franchise.

We believe that the solution of the race question in the South is largely a matter of industrial
and thorough education. We believe that the best friend that the Southern Negro can have is
the Southern white man, and that the growing interest which the Southern white man is taking
in the development of the Negro is one of the most encouraging reasons for believing the problem
is capable of solution. The hope of the Southern Negro is in teaching him how to be a good
farmer, how to be a good mechanic; in teaching him how to make his home attractive and how
to live more comfortably and according to the rules of health and morality.

Some Southerners who have given expression to their thoughts seem to think that the only solution
of the Negro question is his migration to Africa, but to me such a proposition is utterly fatuous.
The Negro is essential to the South in order that it may have proper labor. An attempt of Negroes
to migrate from one state to another not many years ago led to open violence at white instigation
to prevent it. More than this, the Negroes have now reached 9,000,000 in number. Their ancestors
were brought here against their will. They have no country but this. They know no flag but
ours. They wish to live under it, and are willing to die for it. They are Americans. They are
part of our people and are entitled to our every effort to make them worthy of their responsibilities
as free men and as citizens.

The success of the experiments which have been made with them on a large scale in giving them
the benefit of thorough primary and industrial education, justifies and requires the extension
of this system as far as possible to reach them all.

The proposition to increase the supply of labor in the South by emigration from Europe, it
seems to me, instead of being inimical to the cause of the Negro, will aid him. As the industries
of the South continue to grow in the marvelous ratio already shown, the demand for labor must
increase. The presence of the Southern community of white European labor from the southern
part of Europe will have, I am hopeful, the same effect that it has had upon Negro labor on
the Isthmus of Panama. It has introduced a spirit of emulation or competition, so that to-day
the tropical Negroes of the West Indies do much better work for us in the canal construction
since we brought over Spanish, Italian, and Greek laborers.

Ultimately, of course, the burden of Negro education must fall on the Southern people and on
Southern property owners. Private charity and munificence, except by way of furnishing an example
and a model, can do comparatively little in this direction. The matter now in hand is to invoke
against the derived and provisional rights of the government, the superior and inalienable right
of the people; also, to substitute for legal authority, which, in its nature, is limited, revolutionary
power, which, in its essence, is absolute. To this end the section of the City, under the vice-presidency
of Maillard, the "Septemberizer," invites the other forty-seven sections each to elect two commissaries,
with "unlimited powers."


On the whole, then, the best public opinion of the North and the best public opinion of the
South seem to be coming together in respect to all the economic and political questions growing
out of present race conditions.

The attitude of the candidate and the platform of the Democratic Party in the last election
made this campaign a most favorable one to bring home to the Southern people for serious consideration
the query why they should still adhere to political solidity in the South. It may be that four
years hence the candidate and platform of the Democratic Party will more approve themselves
to the South and to the intelligent men of the South. Under these conditions there may seem
to be a retrograde step, and the South continue solid, but I venture to think that the movement
now begun will grow, slowly at first, but ultimately so as to extend the practical political
arena for the discussion of party issues into all the Southern States.

The recent election has made it probable that I shall become more or less responsible for the
policy of the next Presidential Administration, and I improve this opportunity to say that
nothing would give me greater pride, because nothing would give me more claim to the gratitude
of my fellow-citizens, than if I could so direct that policy in respect to the Southern States
as to convince its intelligent citizens of the desire of the Administration to aid them in
working out satisfactorily the serious problems before them and of bringing them and their
Northern fellow-citizens closer and closer in sympathy and point of view. During the last decade,
in common with all lovers of our country, I have watched with delight and thanksgiving the
bond of union between the two sections grow firmer. I pray that it may be given to me to strengthen
this movement, to obliterate all sectional lines, and leave nothing of difference between the
North and the South, save a friendly emulation for the benefit of our common country.

