THE REV. H. F. CARY

PURGATORY

Part 2

Cantos 5 - 10

CANTO V

Now had I left those spirits, and pursued The steps of my Conductor, when beheld Pointing the
finger at me one exclaim'd: "See how it seems as if the light not shone From the left hand
of him beneath, and he, As living, seems to be led on."  Mine eyes I at that sound reverting,
saw them gaze Through wonder first at me, and then at me And the light broken underneath, by
turns. "Why are thy thoughts thus riveted?"  my guide Exclaim'd, "that thou hast slack'd thy
pace? or how Imports it thee, what thing is whisper'd here? Come after me, and to their babblings
leave The crowd. Be as a tower, that, firmly set, Shakes not its top for any blast that blows!
He, in whose bosom thought on thought shoots out, Still of his aim is wide, in that the one
Sicklies and wastes to nought the other's strength."

What other could I answer save "I come?" I said it, somewhat with that colour ting'd Which
ofttimes pardon meriteth for man.

Meanwhile traverse along the hill there came, A little way before us, some who sang The "Miserere"
in responsive Strains. When they perceiv'd that through my body I Gave way not for the rays
to pass, their song Straight to a long and hoarse exclaim they chang'd; And two of them, in
guise of messengers, Ran on to meet us, and inquiring ask'd: "Of your condition we would gladly
learn."

To them my guide.  "Ye may return, and bear Tidings to them who sent you, that his frame Is
real flesh.  If, as I deem, to view His shade they paus'd, enough is answer'd them. Him let
them honour, they may prize him well."

Ne'er saw I fiery vapours with such speed Cut through the serene air at fall of night, Nor
August's clouds athwart the setting sun, That upward these did not in shorter space Return;
and, there arriving, with the rest Wheel back on us, as with loose rein a troop.

"Many," exclaim'd the bard, "are these, who throng Around us: to petition thee they come. Go
therefore on, and listen as thou go'st."

"O spirit! who go'st on to blessedness With the same limbs, that clad thee at thy birth." Shouting
they came, "a little rest thy step. Look if thou any one amongst our tribe Hast e'er beheld,
that tidings of him there Thou mayst report.  Ah, wherefore go'st thou on? Ah wherefore tarriest
thou not?  We all By violence died, and to our latest hour Were sinners, but then warn'd by
light from heav'n, So that, repenting and forgiving, we Did issue out of life at peace with
God, Who with desire to see him fills our heart."

Then I: "The visages of all I scan Yet none of ye remember.  But if aught, That I can do, may
please you, gentle spirits! Speak; and I will perform it, by that peace, Which on the steps
of guide so excellent Following from world to world intent I seek."

In answer he began: "None here distrusts Thy kindness, though not promis'd with an oath; So
as the will fail not for want of power. Whence I, who sole before the others speak, Entreat
thee, if thou ever see that land, Which lies between Romagna and the realm Of Charles, that
of thy courtesy thou pray Those who inhabit Fano, that for me Their adorations duly be put
up, By which I may purge off my grievous sins. From thence I came.  But the deep passages,
Whence issued out the blood wherein I dwelt, Upon my bosom in Antenor's land Were made, where
to be more secure I thought. The author of the deed was Este's prince, Who, more than right
could warrant, with his wrath Pursued me.  Had I towards Mira fled, When overta'en at Oriaco,
still Might I have breath'd. But to the marsh I sped, And in the mire and rushes tangled there
Fell, and beheld my life-blood float the plain."

Then said another: "Ah! so may the wish, That takes thee o'er the mountain, be fulfill'd, As
thou shalt graciously give aid to mine. Of Montefeltro I; Buonconte I: Giovanna nor none else
have care for me, Sorrowing with these I therefore go."  I thus: "From Campaldino's field what
force or chance Drew thee, that ne'er thy sepulture was known?"

"Oh!"  answer'd he, "at Casentino's foot A stream there courseth, nam'd Archiano, sprung In
Apennine above the Hermit's seat. E'en where its name is cancel'd, there came I, Pierc'd in
the heart, fleeing away on foot, And bloodying the plain.  Here sight and speech Fail'd me,
and finishing with Mary's name I fell, and tenantless my flesh remain'd. I will report the
truth; which thou again Tell to the living.  Me God's angel took, Whilst he of hell exclaim'd:
"O thou from heav'n! Say wherefore hast thou robb'd me?  Thou of him Th' eternal portion bear'st
with thee away For one poor tear that he deprives me of. But of the other, other rule I make."

"Thou knowest how in the atmosphere collects That vapour dank, returning into water, Soon as
it mounts where cold condenses it. That evil will, which in his intellect Still follows evil,
came, and rais'd the wind And smoky mist, by virtue of the power Given by his nature.  My stiffen'd
frame Laid at his mouth the fell Archiano found, And dash'd it into Arno, from my breast Loos'ning
the cross, that of myself I made When overcome with pain.  He hurl'd me on, Along the banks
and bottom of his course; Then in his muddy spoils encircling wrapt."

"Ah! when thou to the world shalt be return'd, And rested after thy long road," so spake Next
the third spirit; "then remember me. I once was Pia.  Sienna gave me life, Maremma took it
from me.  That he knows, Who me with jewell'd ring had first espous'd."

Here of Arezzo him I saw, who fell By Ghino's cruel arm; and him beside, Who in his chase was
swallow'd by the stream. Here Frederic Novello, with his hand Stretch'd forth, entreated; and
of Pisa he, Who put the good Marzuco to such proof Of constancy.  Count Orso I beheld; And
from its frame a soul dismiss'd for spite And envy, as it said, but for no crime: I speak of
Peter de la Brosse; and here, While she yet lives, that Lady of Brabant Let her beware; lest
for so false a deed She herd with worse than these. When I was freed From all those spirits,
who pray'd for others' prayers To hasten on their state of blessedness; Straight I began: "O
thou, my luminary! It seems expressly in thy text denied, That heaven's supreme decree can
never bend To supplication; yet with this design Do these entreat.  Can then their hope be
vain, Or is thy saying not to me reveal'd?"

He thus to me: "Both what I write is plain, And these deceiv'd not in their hope, if well Thy
mind consider, that the sacred height Of judgment doth not stoop, because love's flame In a
short moment all fulfils, which he Who sojourns here, in right should satisfy. Besides, when
I this point concluded thus, By praying no defect could be supplied; Because the pray'r had
none access to God. Yet in this deep suspicion rest thou not Contented unless she assure thee
so, Who betwixt truth and mind infuses light. I know not if thou take me right; I mean Beatrice.
Her thou shalt behold above, Upon this mountain's crown, fair seat of joy."

Then I: "Sir! let us mend our speed; for now I tire not as before; and lo! the hill Stretches
its shadow far."  He answer'd thus: "Our progress with this day shall be as much As we may
now dispatch; but otherwise Than thou supposest is the truth.  For there Thou canst not be,
ere thou once more behold Him back returning, who behind the steep Is now so hidden, that as
erst his beam Thou dost not break.  But lo! a spirit there Stands solitary, and toward us looks:
It will instruct us in the speediest way."

We soon approach'd it.  O thou Lombard spirit! How didst thou stand, in high abstracted mood,
Scarce moving with slow dignity thine eyes! It spoke not aught, but let us onward pass, Eyeing
us as a lion on his watch. We purpose providing a good supper of bread and soup, after which an
address will be given. At the close of the meeting a parcel of provisions will be given to each
man. Supper will be provided in the lower part of the chapel.
  Each
the other then embrac'd.

Ah slavish Italy! thou inn of grief, Vessel without a pilot in loud storm, Lady no longer of
fair provinces, But brothel-house impure! this gentle spirit, Ev'n from the Pleasant sound
of his dear land Was prompt to greet a fellow citizen With such glad cheer; while now thy living
ones In thee abide not without war; and one Malicious gnaws another, ay of those Whom the same
wall and the same moat contains, Seek, wretched one! around thy sea-coasts wide; Then homeward
to thy bosom turn, and mark If any part of the sweet peace enjoy. What boots it, that thy reins
Justinian's hand Befitted, if thy saddle be unpress'd? Nought doth he now but aggravate thy
shame. Ah people! thou obedient still shouldst live, And in the saddle let thy Caesar sit,
If well thou marked'st that which God commands.

Look how that beast to felness hath relaps'd From having lost correction of the spur, Since
to the bridle thou hast set thine hand, O German Albert! who abandon'st her, That is grown
savage and unmanageable, When thou should'st clasp her flanks with forked heels. Just judgment
from the stars fall on thy blood! And be it strange and manifest to all! Such as may strike
thy successor with dread! For that thy sire and thou have suffer'd thus, Through greediness
of yonder realms detain'd, The garden of the empire to run waste. Come see the Capulets and
Montagues, The Philippeschi and Monaldi! man Who car'st for nought! those sunk in grief, and
these With dire suspicion rack'd. Come, cruel one! Come and behold the' oppression of the nobles,
And mark their injuries: and thou mayst see. What safety Santafiore can supply. Come and behold
thy Rome, who calls on thee, Desolate widow! day and night with moans: "My Caesar, why dost
thou desert my side?" Come and behold what love among thy people: And if no pity touches thee
for us, Come and blush for thine own report.  For me, If it be lawful, O Almighty Power, Who
wast in earth for our sakes crucified! Are thy just eyes turn'd elsewhere? or is this A preparation
in the wond'rous depth Of thy sage counsel made, for some good end, Entirely from our reach
of thought cut off? So are the' Italian cities all o'erthrong'd With tyrants, and a great Marcellus
made Of every petty factious villager.

My Florence! thou mayst well remain unmov'd At this digression, which affects not thee: Thanks
to thy people, who so wisely speed. Many have justice in their heart, that long Waiteth for
counsel to direct the bow, Or ere it dart unto its aim: but shine Have it on their lip's edge.
Many refuse To bear the common burdens: readier thine Answer uneall'd, and cry, "Behold I stoop!"

Make thyself glad, for thou hast reason now, Thou wealthy! thou at peace! thou wisdom-fraught!
Facts best witness if I speak the truth. Athens and Lacedaemon, who of old Enacted laws, for
civil arts renown'd, Made little progress in improving life Tow'rds thee, who usest such nice
subtlety, That to the middle of November scarce Reaches the thread thou in October weav'st.
How many times, within thy memory, Customs, and laws, and coins, and offices Have been by thee
renew'd, and people chang'd!

If thou remember'st well and can'st see clear, Thou wilt perceive thyself like a sick wretch,
Who finds no rest upon her down, but oft Shifting her side, short respite seeks from pain.

CANTO VII

After their courteous greetings joyfully Sev'n times exchang'd, Sordello backward drew Exclaiming,
"Who are ye?"  "Before this mount By spirits worthy of ascent to God Was sought, my bones had
by Octavius' care Been buried.  I am Virgil, for no sin Depriv'd of heav'n, except for lack
of faith."

So answer'd him in few my gentle guide.

As one, who aught before him suddenly Beholding, whence his wonder riseth, cries "It is yet
is not," wav'ring in belief; Such he appear'd; then downward bent his eyes, And drawing near
with reverential step, Caught him, where of mean estate might clasp His lord.  "Glory of Latium!"
he exclaim'd, "In whom our tongue its utmost power display'd! Boast of my honor'd birth-place!
what desert Of mine, what favour rather undeserv'd, Shows thee to me?  If I to hear that voice
Am worthy, say if from below thou com'st And from what cloister's pale?"--"Through every orb
Of that sad region," he reply'd, "thus far Am I arriv'd, by heav'nly influence led And with
such aid I come.  There is a place There underneath, not made by torments sad, But by dun shades
alone; where mourning's voice Sounds not of anguish sharp, but breathes in sighs.

"There I with little innocents abide, Who by death's fangs were bitten, ere exempt From human
taint.  There I with those abide, Who the three holy virtues put not on, But understood the
rest, and without blame Follow'd them all.  But if thou know'st and canst, Direct us, how we
soonest may arrive, Where Purgatory its true beginning takes."

He answer'd thus: "We have no certain place Assign'd us: upwards I may go or round, Far as
I can, I join thee for thy guide. But thou beholdest now how day declines: And upwards to proceed
by night, our power Excels: therefore it may be well to choose A place of pleasant sojourn.
To the right Some spirits sit apart retir'd.  If thou Consentest, I to these will lead thy
steps: And thou wilt know them, not without delight."

"How chances this?"  was answer'd; "who so wish'd To ascend by night, would he be thence debarr'd
By other, or through his own weakness fail?"

The good Sordello then, along the ground Trailing his finger, spoke: "Only this line Thou shalt
not overpass, soon as the sun Hath disappear'd; not that aught else impedes Thy going upwards,
save the shades of night. These with the wont of power perplex the will. With them thou haply
mightst return beneath, Or to and fro around the mountain's side Wander, while day is in the
horizon shut."

My master straight, as wond'ring at his speech, Exclaim'd: "Then lead us quickly, where thou
sayst, That, while we stay, we may enjoy delight."

A little space we were remov'd from thence, When I perceiv'd the mountain hollow'd out. Ev'n
as large valleys hollow'd out on earth,

"That way," the' escorting spirit cried, "we go, Where in a bosom the high bank recedes: And
thou await renewal of the day."

Betwixt the steep and plain a crooked path Led us traverse into the ridge's side, Where more
than half the sloping edge expires. Refulgent gold, and silver thrice refin'd, And scarlet
grain and ceruse, Indian wood Of lucid dye serene, fresh emeralds But newly broken, by the
herbs and flowers Plac'd in that fair recess, in color all Had been surpass'd, as great surpasses
less. Nor nature only there lavish'd her hues, But of the sweetness of a thousand smells A
rare and undistinguish'd fragrance made.

"Salve Regina," on the grass and flowers Here chanting I beheld those spirits sit Who not beyond
the valley could be seen.

"Before the west'ring sun sink to his bed," Began the Mantuan, who our steps had turn'd,

"'Mid those desires not that I lead ye on. For from this eminence ye shall discern Better the
acts and visages of all, Than in the nether vale among them mix'd. He, who sits high above
the rest, and seems To have neglected that he should have done, And to the others' song moves
not his lip, The Emperor Rodolph call, who might have heal'd The wounds whereof fair Italy
hath died, So that by others she revives but slowly, He, who with kindly visage comforts him,
Sway'd in that country, where the water springs, That Moldaw's river to the Elbe, and Elbe
Rolls to the ocean: Ottocar his name: Who in his swaddling clothes was of more worth Than Winceslaus
his son, a bearded man, Pamper'd with rank luxuriousness and ease. And that one with the nose
depress, who close In counsel seems with him of gentle look, Flying expir'd, with'ring the
lily's flower. Look there how he doth knock against his breast! The other ye behold, who for
his cheek Makes of one hand a couch, with frequent sighs. They are the father and the father-in-law
Of Gallia's bane: his vicious life they know And foul; thence comes the grief that rends them thus.

"He, so robust of limb, who measure keeps In song, with him of feature prominent, With ev'ry
virtue bore his girdle brac'd. And if that stripling who behinds him sits, King after him had
liv'd, his virtue then From vessel to like vessel had been pour'd; Which may not of the other
heirs be said. By James and Frederick his realms are held; Neither the better heritage obtains.
Rarely into the branches of the tree Doth human worth mount up; and so ordains He who bestows
it, that as his free gift It may be call'd.  To Charles my words apply No less than to his
brother in the song; Which Pouille and Provence now with grief confess. So much that plant
degenerates from its seed, As more than Beatrice and Margaret Costanza still boasts of her
valorous spouse.

"Behold the king of simple life and plain, Harry of England, sitting there alone: He through
his branches better issue spreads.

"That one, who on the ground beneath the rest Sits lowest, yet his gaze directs aloft, Us William,
that brave Marquis, for whose cause The deed of Alexandria and his war Makes Conferrat and
Canavese weep."

"Te Lucis Ante," so devoutly then Came from its lip, and in so soft a strain, That all my sense
in ravishment was lost. And the rest after, softly and devout, Follow'd through all the hymn,
with upward gaze Directed to the bright supernal wheels.

Sordello paus'd not: "To the valley now (For it is time) let us descend; and hold Converse
with those great shadows: haply much Their sight may please ye."  Only three steps down Methinks
I measur'd, ere I was beneath, And noted one who look'd as with desire To know me.  Time was
now that air arrow dim; Yet not so dim, that 'twixt his eyes and mine It clear'd not up what
was conceal'd before. Mutually tow'rds each other we advanc'd. Nino, thou courteous judge!
what joy I felt, When I perceiv'd thou wert not with the bad!

No salutation kind on either part Was left unsaid.  He then inquir'd: "How long Since thou
arrived'st at the mountain's foot, Over the distant waves?"--"O!" answer'd I, "Through the
sad seats of woe this morn I came, And still in my first life, thus journeying on, The other
strive to gain."  Soon as they heard My words, he and Sordello backward drew, As suddenly amaz'd.
To Virgil one, The other to a spirit turn'd, who near Was seated, crying: "Conrad! up with
speed: Come, see what of his grace high God hath will'd." Then turning round to me: "By that
rare mark Of honour which thou ow'st to him, who hides So deeply his first cause, it hath no
ford, When thou shalt be beyond the vast of waves. Tell my Giovanna, that for me she call There,
where reply to innocence is made. Her mother, I believe, loves me no more; Since she has chang'd
the white and wimpled folds, Which she is doom'd once more with grief to wish. By her it easily
may be perceiv'd, How long in women lasts the flame of love, If sight and touch do not relume
it oft. For her so fair a burial will not make The viper which calls Milan to the field, As
had been made by shrill Gallura's bird."

He spoke, and in his visage took the stamp Of that right seal, which with due temperature Glows
in the bosom.  My insatiate eyes Meanwhile to heav'n had travel'd, even there Where the bright
stars are slowest, as a wheel Nearest the axle; when my guide inquir'd: "What there aloft,
my son, has caught thy gaze?"

I answer'd: "The three torches, with which here The pole is all on fire."  He then to me: "The
four resplendent stars, thou saw'st this morn Are there beneath, and these ris'n in their stead."

While yet he spoke.

The Spirit (who to Nino, when he call'd, Had come), from viewing me with fixed ken, Through
all that conflict, loosen'd not his sight.

"So may the lamp, which leads thee up on high, Find, in thy destin'd lot, of wax so much, As
may suffice thee to the enamel's height." It thus began: "If any certain news Of Valdimagra
and the neighbour part Thou know'st, tell me, who once was mighty there They call'd me Conrad
Malaspina, not That old one, but from him I sprang.  The love I bore my people is now here
refin'd." 

The bathers occasionally look a great deal better out of their integuments than in them. Not from
this class, however, do your all-the-year-round bathers come. The Arab is an exotic--a child
of the Sun, loving not to disport himself in water the temperature of which shocks his tentative
knuckles, as he dips them in the unaccustomed element. His wardrobe, again, is too much after
the fashion of that pertaining to Canning's needy knife-grinder to make an al fresco toilette
other than embarrassing.  He then: "Now
pass thee on: sev'n times the tired sun Revisits not the couch, which with four feet The forked
Aries covers, ere that kind Opinion shall be nail'd into thy brain With stronger nails than
other's speech can drive, If the sure course of judgment be not stay'd."

CANTO IX

Now the fair consort of Tithonus old, Arisen from her mate's beloved arms, Look'd palely o'er
the eastern cliff: her brow, Lucent with jewels, glitter'd, set in sign Of that chill animal,
who with his train Smites fearful nations: and where then we were, Two steps of her ascent
the night had past, And now the third was closing up its wing, When I, who had so much of Adam
with me, Sank down upon the grass, o'ercome with sleep, There where all five were seated. 
In that hour, When near the dawn the swallow her sad lay, Rememb'ring haply ancient grief,
renews, And with our minds more wand'rers from the flesh, And less by thought restrain'd are,
as 't were, full Of holy divination in their dreams, Then in a vision did I seem to view A
golden-feather'd eagle in the sky, With open wings, and hov'ring for descent, And I was in
that place, methought, from whence Young Ganymede, from his associates 'reft, Was snatch'd
aloft to the high consistory. "Perhaps," thought I within me, "here alone He strikes his quarry,
and elsewhere disdains To pounce upon the prey."  Therewith, it seem'd, A little wheeling in
his airy tour Terrible as the lightning rush'd he down, And snatch'd me upward even to the fire.

There both, I thought, the eagle and myself Did burn; and so intense th' imagin'd flames, That
needs my sleep was broken off.  As erst Achilles shook himself, and round him roll'd His waken'd
eyeballs wond'ring where he was, Whenas his mother had from Chiron fled To Scyros, with him
sleeping in her arms; E'en thus I shook me, soon as from my face The slumber parted, turning
deadly pale, Like one ice-struck with dread.  Suffer me to take this man, Who slumbers.  Easier
so his way shall speed." Sordello and the other gentle shapes Tarrying, she bare thee up: and,
as day shone, This summit reach'd: and I pursued her steps. Here did she place thee.  First
her lovely eyes That open entrance show'd me; then at once She vanish'd with thy sleep.  Like
one, whose doubts Are chas'd by certainty, and terror turn'd To comfort on discovery of the
truth, Such was the change in me: and as my guide Beheld me fearless, up along the cliff He
mov'd, and I behind him, towards the height. As more and more mine eye did stretch its view,
I mark'd him seated on the highest step, In visage such, as past my power to bear.  Had mine
eyes turn'd, For that offence what plea might have avail'd?

We mounted up the riven rock, that wound On either side alternate, as the wave Flies and advances.
"Here some little art Behooves us," said my leader, "that our steps Observe the varying flexure
of the path."

Thus we so slowly sped, that with cleft orb The moon once more o'erhangs her wat'ry couch,
Ere we that strait have threaded.  But when free We came and open, where the mount above One
solid mass retires, I spent, with toil, And both, uncertain of the way, we stood, Upon a plain
more lonesome, than the roads That traverse desert wilds.  "Fix not thy mind On one place only,"
said the guide belov'd, Who had me near him on that part where lies The heart of man.  My sight
forthwith I turn'd And mark'd, behind the virgin mother's form, Upon that side, where he, that
mov'd me, stood, Another story graven on the rock.

I passed athwart the bard, and drew me near, That it might stand more aptly for my view. There
in the self-same marble were engrav'd The cart and kine, drawing the sacred ark, That from
unbidden office awes mankind. Before it came much people; and the whole Parted in seven quires.
One sense cried, "Nay," Another, "Yes, they sing."  Like doubt arose Betwixt the eye and smell,
from the curl'd fume Of incense breathing up the well-wrought toil. Preceding the blest vessel,
onward came With light dance leaping, girt in humble guise, Sweet Israel's harper: in that
hap he seem'd Less and yet more than kingly.  Opposite, At a great palace, from the lattice
forth Look'd Michol, like a lady full of scorn And sorrow.  To behold the tablet next, Which
at the hack of Michol whitely shone, I mov'd me.

He, whose ken nothing new surveys, produc'd That visible speaking, new to us and strange The
like not found on earth.  Fondly I gaz'd Upon those patterns of meek humbleness, Shapes yet
more precious for their artist's sake, When "Lo," the poet whisper'd, "where this way (But
slack their pace), a multitude advance. These to the lofty steps shall guide us on."

Mine eyes, though bent on view of novel sights Their lov'd allurement, were not slow to turn.

Reader! would not that amaz'd thou miss Of thy good purpose, hearing how just God Decrees our
debts be cancel'd.  Ponder not The form of suff'ring.  Think on what succeeds, Think that at
worst beyond the mighty doom It cannot pass.  "Instructor," I began, "What I see hither tending,
bears no trace Of human semblance, nor of aught beside That my foil'd sight can guess."  He
answering thus: "So courb'd to earth, beneath their heavy teems Of torment stoop they, that
mine eye at first Struggled as thine.  But look intently thither, An disentangle with thy lab'ring
view, What underneath those stones approacheth: now, E'en now, mayst thou discern the pangs
of each."

Christians and proud! poor and wretched ones! That feeble in the mind's eye, lean your trust
Upon unstaid perverseness! now ye not That we are worms, yet made at last to form The winged
insect, imp'd with angel plumes That to heaven's justice unobstructed soars? Why buoy ye up
aloft your unfleg'd souls? Abortive then and shapeless ye remain, Like the untimely embryon
of a worm!

As, to support incumbent floor or roof, For corbel is a figure sometimes seen, That crumples
up its knees unto its breast, With the feign'd posture stirring ruth unfeign'd In the beholder's
fancy; so I saw These fashion'd, when I noted well their guise.

Each, as his back was laden, came indeed Or more or less contract; but it appear'd As he, who
show'd most patience in his look, Wailing exclaim'd: "I can endure no more."

