I was a cipher in this august company, and felt subdued, not to say torpid. I was not even
of sufficient consequence to assist at the wheel when it was necessary to put the tiller hard
down in a hurry; the guest that stood nearest did that when occasion required--and this was
pretty much all the time, because of the crookedness of the channel and the scant water. I
stood in a corner; and the talk I listened to took the hope all out of me. One visitor said
to another--

'Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?'

'It was in the night, there, and I ran it the way one of the boys on the "Diana" told me; started
out about fifty yards above the wood pile on the false point, and held on the cabin under Plum
Point till I raised the reef--quarter less twain--then straightened up for the middle bar till
I got well abreast the old one-limbed cotton-wood in the bend, then got my stern on the cotton-wood
and head on the low place above the point, and came through a-booming--nine and a half.'

'Pretty square crossing, an't it?'

'Yes, but the upper bar 's working down fast.'

Another pilot spoke up and said--

'I had better water than that, and ran it lower down; started out from the false point--mark
twain--raised the second reef abreast the big snag in the bend, and had quarter less twain.'

One of the gorgeous ones remarked--

'I don't want to find fault with your leadsmen, but that's a good deal of water for Plum Point,
it seems to me.'

There was an approving nod all around as this quiet snub dropped on the boaster and 'settled'
him.  And so they went on talk-talk-talking. Meantime, the thing that was running in my mind
was, 'Now if my ears hear aright, I have not only to get the names of all the towns and islands
and bends, and so on, by heart, but I must even get up a warm personal acquaintanceship with
every old snag and one-limbed cotton-wood and obscure wood pile that ornaments the banks of
this river for twelve hundred miles; and more than that, I must actually know where these things
are in the dark, unless these guests are gifted with eyes that can pierce through two miles
of solid blackness; I wish the piloting business was in Jericho and I had never thought of it.'

At dusk Mr. Bixby tapped the big bell three times (the signal to land), and the captain emerged
from his drawing-room in the forward end of the texas, and looked up inquiringly. Mr. Bixby said--

'We will lay up here all night, captain.'

'Very well, sir.'

That was all.  The boat came to shore and was tied up for the night. It seemed to me a fine
thing that the pilot could do as he pleased, without asking so grand a captain's permission.
I took my supper and went immediately to bed, discouraged by my day's observations and experiences.
My late voyage's note-booking was but a confusion of meaningless names. It had tangled me all
up in a knot every time I had looked at it in the daytime.  I now hoped for respite in sleep;
but no, it reveled all through my head till sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare.

Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low-spirited. We went booming along, taking a good many
chances, for we were anxious to 'get out of the river' (as getting out to Cairo was called)
before night should overtake us. But Mr. Bixby's partner, the other pilot, presently grounded
the boat, and we lost so much time in getting her off that it was plain that darkness would
overtake us a good long way above the mouth.  This was a great misfortune, especially to certain
of our visiting pilots, whose boats would have to wait for their return, no matter how long
that might be. It sobered the pilot-house talk a good deal.  Coming up-stream, pilots did not
mind low water or any kind of darkness; nothing stopped them but fog. But down-stream work
was different; a boat was too nearly helpless, with a stiff current pushing behind her; so
it was not customary to run down-stream at night in low water.

There seemed to be one small hope, however:  if we could get through the intricate and dangerous
Hat Island crossing before night, we could venture the rest, for we would have plainer sailing
and better water. But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at night. So there was a deal
of looking at watches all the rest of the day, and a constant ciphering upon the speed we were
making; Hat Island was the eternal subject; sometimes hope was high and sometimes we were delayed
in a bad crossing, and down it went again. Talk about guides! Let Independence, Self-Conceit,
and Go-ahead undervalue them, if they will; but I, Sola Foemina, (for that is the name I go by,)
of Ignorance, (the place I hail from,) casting up my unbalanced accounts, (with a view to
settling,) find a large credit due to this class of individuals, which (though I have not the
means to meet) I have no intention to repudiate.

Now and then, to be sure, I, S. F., have been reminded in my journeyings
of poor dear E., whose lively spirit was so chafed by the exactions
made upon his purse and his temper at the hands of this imperturbable
race, that at last he turned, like a stag at bay, and vented all his
wrath in the face of a startled old woman by the abrupt and emphatic
query, "What'll you take to clear out?"

Still, dogmatic and prosing as they sometimes proved, my experience
on the whole was favorable; and from the motherly old portress of
the English church at Honeybourne, who fed me with bread and butter
under her cottage-roof, and sent me away laden with garden-flowers
and a blessing, to faithful Michel, who held me over the blue fissures
of the glaciers that I might get a glimpse of their secret waterfalls,
who gathered violets for me on the margin of the icy sea, and, when
I had carelessly dropped them by the way, treasured up the faded things
to restore them to me at nightfall,--from the aged woman, with her
"Good bye till we meet in heaven," to the rough mountaineer, with
his hearty hand-pressure and God-speed at parting, I would not willingly
lose one link out of the chain of such fast friends which stretched
along my way.

There is Warwick Castle,--a written history, no doubt, to scholars, a mine of wealth to antiquaries
and architects; but how incomplete would my associations be with the spot, were you banished
from the picture, my sturdy friend, fit type of the female retainers of the household of the
King-Maker, who, stationed within the ivied approach to the castle, presided at the brazen
porridge-pot, once holding food enough to satisfy ten score of men, now empty, save for the volume
of sound which stuns the ear when you strike it with your ponderous iron bar!


'M-a-r-k three!.... M-a-r-k three!.... Quarter-less three! .... Half twain! .... Quarter twain!
.... M-a-r-k twain! .... Quarter-less--'

Mr. Bixby pulled two bell-ropes, and was answered by faint jinglings far below in the engine
room, and our speed slackened. The steam began to whistle through the gauge-cocks. The cries
of the leadsmen went on--and it is a weird sound, always, in the night. Every pilot in the
lot was watching now, with fixed eyes, and talking under his breath.  Nobody was calm and easy
but Mr. Bixby. He would put his wheel down and stand on a spoke, and as the steamer swung into
her (to me) utterly invisible marks--for we seemed to be in the midst of a wide and gloomy
sea--he would meet and fasten her there. Out of the murmur of half-audible talk, one caught
a coherent sentence now and then--such as--

'There; she's over the first reef all right!'

After a pause, another subdued voice--

'Her stern's coming down just exactly right, by George!'

'Now she's in the marks; over she goes!'

Somebody else muttered--

'Oh, it was done beautiful--BEAUTIFUL!'

Now the engines were stopped altogether, and we drifted with the current.  Not that I could
see the boat drift, for I could not, the stars being all gone by this time. This drifting was
the dismalest work; it held one's heart still. Presently I discovered a blacker gloom than
that which surrounded us. It was the head of the island.  We were closing right down upon it.
We entered its deeper shadow, and so imminent seemed the peril that I was likely to suffocate;
and I had the strongest impulse to do SOMETHING, anything, to save the vessel. But still Mr.
Bixby stood by his wheel, silent, intent as a cat, and all the pilots stood shoulder to shoulder
at his back.

'She'll not make it!' somebody whispered.

The water grew shoaler and shoaler, by the leadsman's cries, till it was down to--

'Eight-and-a-half!.... E-i-g-h-t feet!.... E-i-g-h-t feet!.... Seven- and--'

Mr. Bixby said warningly through his speaking tube to the engineer--

'Stand by, now!'

'Aye-aye, sir!'

'Seven-and-a-half! Seven feet!  Six-and--'

We touched bottom!  Instantly Mr. Bixby set a lot of bells ringing, shouted through the tube,
'NOW, let her have it--every ounce you've got!' then to his partner, 'Put her hard down! snatch
her! snatch her!' The boat rasped and ground her way through the sand, hung upon the apex of
disaster a single tremendous instant, and then over she went! And such a shout as went up at
Mr. Bixby's back never loosened the roof of a pilot-house before!

There was no more trouble after that. A Federal rifle battery, fired at us for a while, where we
lay on the ground barely covered from their fire, when one of the
shells skimmed the crest of the hill, it would miss our back a foot
or two and pass on with no damage to us.

Fully to realize the marvelous precision required in laying the great steamer in her marks
in that murky waste of water, one should know that not only must she pick her intricate way
through snags and blind reefs, and then shave the head of the island so closely as to brush
the overhanging foliage with her stern, but at one place she must pass almost within arm's
reach of a sunken and invisible wreck that would snatch the hull timbers from under her if
she should strike it, and destroy a quarter of a million dollars' worth of steam-boat and cargo
in five minutes, and maybe a hundred and fifty human lives into the bargain.

The last remark I heard that night was a compliment to Mr. Bixby, uttered in soliloquy and
with unction by one of our guests.  He said--

'By the Shadow of Death, but he's a lightning pilot!'

Chapter 8 Perplexing Lessons

At the end of what seemed a tedious while, I had managed to pack my head full of islands, towns,
bars, 'points,' and bends; and a curiously inanimate mass of lumber it was, too.  However,
inasmuch as I could shut my eyes and reel off a good long string of these names without leaving
out more than ten miles of river in every fifty, I began to feel that I could take a boat down
to New Orleans if I could make her skip those little gaps.  But of course my complacency could
hardly get start enough to lift my nose a trifle into the air, before Mr. Bixby would think
of something to fetch it down again.  My gunpowdery chief went off with a bang, of course,
and then went on loading and firing until he was out of adjectives.

I had learned long ago that he only carried just so many rounds of ammunition, and was sure
to subside into a very placable and even remorseful old smooth-bore as soon as they were all
gone. That word 'old' is merely affectionate; he was not more than thirty-four.

That night we had the watch until twelve.  Now it was an ancient river custom for the two pilots
to chat a bit when the watch changed. While the relieving pilot put on his gloves and lit his
cigar, his partner, the retiring pilot, would say something like this--

'I judge the upper bar is making down a little at Hale's Point; had quarter twain with the
lower lead and mark twain {footnote [Two fathoms. 'Quarter twain' is two-and-a-quarter fathoms,
thirteen-and-a-half feet. 'Mark three' is three fathoms.]} with the other.'

'Yes, I thought it was making down a little, last trip. Meet any boats?'

'Met one abreast the head of 21, but she was away over hugging the bar, and I couldn't make
her out entirely.  I took her for the "Sunny South"- -hadn't any skylights forward of the chimneys.'

And so on.  And as the relieving pilot took the wheel his partner{footnote ['Partner' is a
technical term for 'the other pilot'.]} would mention that we were in such-and-such a bend,
and say we were abreast of such-and-such a man's wood-yard or plantation.  This was courtesy;
I supposed it was necessity. But Mr. W---- came on watch full twelve minutes late on this particular
night,--a tremendous breach of etiquette; in fact, it is the unpardonable sin among pilots.
So Mr. Bixby gave him no greeting whatever, but simply surrendered the wheel and marched out
of the pilot-house without a word. I was appalled; it was a villainous night for blackness,
we were in a particularly wide and blind part of the river, where there was no shape or substance
to anything, and it seemed incredible that Mr. Bixby should have left that poor fellow to kill
the boat trying to find out where he was. But I resolved that I would stand by him any way.
He should find that he was not wholly friendless. So I stood around, and waited to be asked
where we were. But Mr. W---- plunged on serenely through the solid firmament of black cats
that stood for an atmosphere, and never opened his mouth. Here is a proud devil, thought I;
here is a limb of Satan that would rather send us all to destruction than put himself under
obligations to me, because I am not yet one of the salt of the earth and privileged to snub
captains and lord it over everything dead and alive in a steamboat. I presently climbed up
on the bench; I did not think it was safe to go to sleep while this lunatic was on watch.

However, I must have gone to sleep in the course of time, because the next thing I was aware
of was the fact that day was breaking, Mr. W---- gone, and Mr. Bixby at the wheel again. So
it was four o'clock and all well--but me; I felt like a skinful of dry bones and all of them
trying to ache at once.

Mr. Bixby asked me what I had stayed up there for.  I confessed that it was to do Mr. W----
a benevolence,--tell him where he was. It took five minutes for the entire preposterousness
of the thing to filter into Mr. Bixby's system, and then I judge it filled him nearly up to
the chin; because he paid me a compliment--and not much of a one either.  He said,

'Well, taking you by-and-large, you do seem to be more different kinds of an ass than any creature
I ever saw before. What did you suppose he wanted to know for?'

I said I thought it might be a convenience to him.

'Convenience D-nation! Didn't I tell you that a man's got to know the river in the night the
same as he'd know his own front hall?'

'Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if I know it IS the front hall; but suppose
you set me down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell me which hall it is; how am I
to know?'

'Well you've GOT to, on the river!'

'All right.  Then I'm glad I never said anything to Mr. W---- '

'I should say so.  Why, he'd have slammed you through the window and utterly ruined a hundred
dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff.'

I was glad this damage had been saved, for it would have made me unpopular with the owners. The
two principal candidates were Orderly Sergeant John A. Caldwell, and private Robert W. Foster,
both planters sons, both equally educated, and both from Tuscaloosa County. My impression is
that Foster received the most votes, and he was of a most popular disposition. It is probable
that Caldwell's being Orderly Sergeant, had lost him some votes, as no man in authority, could
always please everybody, and be of any account.

Then each candidate had to stand an examination by a Board of Officers in some way, Caldwell
got the commission.

Foster felt much that he had been treated unfairly and wrote out an application to be transferred
to the Confederate Navy. This he sent to Bragg's headquarters direct, not up through the hands
of company Battalion Officials. Bragg ordered him court martialled for this breach of military
etiquette. The result was a verdict of guilty and a sentence to solitary confinement on bread
and water diet for a certain number of days. A small log hut was built close to guard quarters
10×6 feet inside, 7 feet deep, without any door, the ceiling of heavy logs and roofed over, with
the ordinary split boards. Foster had to climb over the wall and into the hut through a hole left
in the ceiling for the purpose, logs were replaced, and roof also.

His blankets of course were put in with him.

His mess carried him, his big thick bread, and it was not all dough between the crusts. We do not
think that water alone quenched his thirst. He had the sympathy of the whole command, who believed
that his sentence was out of all reason, for a violation of military "red tape," and perhaps,
treading on some one's corns. But Lumsden saw the ill effects, threats were being made to tear
the hut down, and release him; and the finest kind of soldiers were beginning to get sulky.
So he mounted his horse and went to Bragg's headquarters. What transpired there none of us ever knew,
but Lumsden rode back with orders for Foster's release and restoration
to duty.

The whole thing was a mistake, first on Bragg's part, and lastly in the sentence placed by the
officers who constituted the military court. A mere reprimand would have been ample, and not
caused any sulkiness among spirited men. There is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty little on top of
it. If you were to hit it you would knock the boat's brains out. Do you see where the line
fringes out at the upper end and begins to fade away?'

'Yes, sir.'

'Well, that is a low place; that is the head of the reef. You can climb over there, and not
hurt anything.  Cross over, now, and follow along close under the reef--easy water there--not
much current.'

I followed the reef along till I approached the fringed end. Then Mr. Bixby said--

'Now get ready.  Wait till I give the word.  She won't want to mount the reef; a boat hates
shoal water.  Stand by--wait--WAIT--keep her well in hand. NOW cramp her down!  Snatch her!
snatch her!'

He seized the other side of the wheel and helped to spin it around until it was hard down,
and then we held it so. The boat resisted, and refused to answer for a while, and next she
came surging to starboard, mounted the reef, and sent a long, angry ridge of water foaming
away from her bows.

'Now watch her; watch her like a cat, or she'll get away from you. When she fights strong and
the tiller slips a little, in a jerky, greasy sort of way, let up on her a trifle; it is the
way she tells you at night that the water is too shoal; but keep edging her up, little by little,
toward the point. You are well up on the bar, now; there is a bar under every point, because
the water that comes down around it forms an eddy and allows the sediment to sink.  Do you
see those fine lines on the face of the water that branch out like the ribs of a fan. Well,
those are little reefs; you want to just miss the ends of them, but run them pretty close.
Now look out--look out! Don't you crowd that slick, greasy-looking place; there ain't nine
feet there; she won't stand it. She begins to smell it; look sharp, I tell you!  Oh blazes,
there you go! Stop the starboard wheel!  Quick!  Ship up to back! Set her back!

The engine bells jingled and the engines answered promptly, shooting white columns of steam
far aloft out of the 'scape pipes, but it was too late.  The boat had 'smelt' the bar in good
earnest; the foamy ridges that radiated from her bows suddenly disappeared, a great dead swell
came rolling forward and swept ahead of her, she careened far over to larboard, and went tearing
away toward the other shore as if she were about scared to death. We were a good mile from
where we ought to have been, when we finally got the upper hand of her again.

During the afternoon watch the next day, Mr. Bixby asked me if I knew how to run the next few
miles.  I said--

'Go inside the first snag above the point, outside the next one, start out from the lower end
of Higgins's wood-yard, make a square crossing and--'

'That's all right.  I'll be back before you close up on the next point.'

But he wasn't. He was still below when I rounded it and entered upon a piece of river which
I had some misgivings about.  I did not know that he was hiding behind a chimney to see how
I would perform. I went gaily along, getting prouder and prouder, for he had never left the
boat in my sole charge such a length of time before. I even got to 'setting' her and letting
the wheel go, entirely, while I vaingloriously turned my back and inspected the stem marks
and hummed a tune, a sort of easy indifference which I had prodigiously admired in Bixby and
other great pilots.  Once I inspected rather long, and when I faced to the front again my heart
flew into my mouth so suddenly that if I hadn't clapped my teeth together I should have lost
it.  One of those frightful bluff reefs was stretching its deadly length right across our bows!
My head was gone in a moment; I did not know which end I stood on; I gasped and could not get
my breath; I spun the wheel down with such rapidity that it wove itself together like a spider's
web; the boat answered and turned square away from the reef, but the reef followed her! I fled,
and still it followed, still it kept--right across my bows! I never looked to see where I was
going, I only fled. The awful crash was imminent--why didn't that villain come! If I committed
the crime of ringing a bell, I might get thrown overboard. But better that than kill the boat.
So in blind desperation I started such a rattling 'shivaree' down below as never had astounded
an engineer in this world before, I fancy.  Amidst the frenzy of the bells the engines began
to back and fill in a furious way, and my reason forsook its throne--we were about to crash
into the woods on the other side of the river. Just then Mr. Bixby stepped calmly into view
on the hurricane deck. My soul went out to him in gratitude. My distress vanished; I would
have felt safe on the brink of Niagara, with Mr. Bixby on the hurricane deck. He blandly and
sweetly took his tooth-pick out of his mouth between his fingers, as if it were a cigar-- we
were just in the act of climbing an overhanging big tree, and the passengers were scudding
astern like rats--and lifted up these commands to me ever so gently--

'Stop the starboard.  Stop the larboard.  Set her back on both.'

The boat hesitated, halted, pressed her nose among the boughs a critical instant, then reluctantly
began to back away.

'Stop the larboard.  Come ahead on it.  Stop the starboard. Come ahead on it. His rifle batteries
commanded the railroad bridge, with pontoon and common bridge below.

That night Johnston's army withdrew across the Oastenaula.

At Cassville thirty miles south of Resaca, on night of May 19th, Johnston
had contemplated giving Sherman a general battle.

Orders were read to all commands announcing the battle for next day.

Our men were ready, believing Johnston had Sherman's army where he
could whip first one portion, then the other, but for reasons about
which there is controversy, the attack of our right wing on the enemy
the next morning was delayed, the opportunity was lost and the retreat
continued.

When we crossed the Etowah below Cartersville, the railroad bridge was burned and the battery
went into position facing the crossing on a low, rocky ridge, in
the afternoon.

The writer remembers, sitting down at the roots of a tree, and immediately
springing up, brushing the seat of his pants vigorously.

Examination showed that he had set down on a nest of little brown
scorpions.

Something like a crawfish in shape, with tails turned up over their
backs, with a sting like a wasp's in the end of the tail.

The laugh of the boys was on him.

Some Federal cavalry rode down to the river, on the other side, but a few shells scattered them, and
at dark we again moved southward toward New Hope church and Dallas.

On the afternoon of May 25th, traveling the sparsely settled country
road, about 2:00 p.m. a courier brought our Captain orders to rush
his guns forward, infantry and wagons giving space and away we went,
the cannoneers mounting on our gun carriages and caissons.

  By and by you will just naturally KNOW one from the
other, but you never will be able to explain why or how you know them apart'

It turned out to be true. The passenger who could not read it was charmed with a peculiar sort
of faint dimple on its surface (on the rare occasions when he did not overlook it altogether);
but to the pilot that was an ITALICIZED passage; indeed, it was more than that, it was a legend
of the largest capitals, with a string of shouting exclamation points at the end of it; for
it meant that a wreck or a rock was buried there that could tear the life out of the strongest
vessel that ever floated. It is the faintest and simplest expression the water ever makes,
and the most hideous to a pilot's eye.  In truth, the passenger who could not read this book
saw nothing but all manner of pretty pictures in it painted by the sun and shaded by the clouds,
whereas to the trained eye these were not pictures at all, but the grimmest and most dead-earnest
of reading-matter.

Now when I had mastered the language of this water and had come to know every trifling feature
that bordered the great river as familiarly as I knew the letters of the alphabet, I had made
a valuable acquisition. But I had lost something, too.  I had lost something which could never
be restored to me while I lived.  All the grace, the beauty, the poetry had gone out of the
majestic river!  I still keep in mind a certain wonderful sunset which I witnessed when steamboating
was new to me. A broad expanse of the river was turned to blood; in the middle distance the
red hue brightened into gold, through which a solitary log came floating, black and conspicuous;
in one place a long, slanting mark lay sparkling upon the water; in another the surface was
broken by boiling, tumbling rings, that were as many-tinted as an opal; where the ruddy flush
was faintest, was a smooth spot that was covered with graceful circles and radiating lines,
ever so delicately traced; the shore on our left was densely wooded, and the somber shadow
that fell from this forest was broken in one place by a long, ruffled trail that shone like
silver; and high above the forest wall a clean-stemmed dead tree waved a single leafy bough
that glowed like a flame in the unobstructed splendor that was flowing from the sun. "No Sir!
I just dropped out!" "All right, you take a rail off that fence and bring it along, and we'll go
on together." There was no help for it. He'd have to "carry that rail." At least as long as the
officer chose to stay along with him.