 "Young man, I doubt if the majority of us here in the academy are deeply interested in this
question of eating, for reasons unnecessary to specify. But before estimating your literary
pretensions, I must ask if you ever frequented Paff's beer-cellar?" She took a rope and tied it to a limb and to
her neck and then jumped. Her toes barely touched the ground. They buried her in the cemetery
on the old Ed Cotton place. I never seen her buried. Aunt Ruthie's grave was the first open
grave I ever seen. Aunt Mary was papa's sister. She was the oldest.

"I would say anything to the Yankees and hang and hide in Miss Fannie's dress. She wore long
big skirts. I hung about her. Grandma raised me on a bottle so mother could nurse Walter (white).
There was something wrong wid Miss Fannie. We colored children et out of trays. They hewed
them out of small logs. Seven or eight et together. We had our little cups. Grandma had a cup
for my water. We et with spoons. It would hold a peck of something to eat. I nursed my mother
four weeks and then mama raised Walter and grandma raised me. Walter et out of our tray many
and many a time. Mother had good teeth and she chewed for us both. Henry was younger than Walter.
They was the only two children Miss Fannie had. Grandma washed out our tray soon as ever we
quit eating. She'd put the bread in, then pour the meat and vegetables over it. It was good.

"Did you ever hear of Walter Cotton, a cancer doctor? That was him. He may be dead now. Me
and him caused Aunt Sue to get a whooping. They had a little pear tree down twix the house
and the spring. Walter knocked one of the sugar pears off and cut it in halves. We et it. Mr.
Ed asked 'bout it. Walter told her Aunt Sue pulled it. She didn't come by the tree. He whooped
her her declaring all the time she never pulled it nor never seen it. I was scared then to
tell on Walter. I hope eat it. Aunt Sue had grown children.

"The Ku Klux come through the first and second gates to papa's house and he opened the door.
They grunted around. They told papa to come out. He didn't go and he was ready to hurt them
when they come in. He told them when he finished that crop they could have his room. He left
that year. They come in on me once before I married. I was at my girl's house. They wanted
to be sure we married. The principal thing they was to see was that you didn't live in the
house wid a woman till you be married. I wasn't married but I soon did marry her. They scared
us up some.

"I don't know if times is so much better for some or not. Some folks won't work. Some do work
awful hard. Young folks I'm speaking 'bout. Times is mighty fast now. Seems like they get faster
and faster every way. I'll be eighty years old this May. I was born in 1858."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Ellen Cragin
                    815-1/2 Arch Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: Around 80 or more
[May 31 1939]

[HW: Escapes on Cow]

"I was born on the tenth of March in some year, I don't know what one. I don't know whether
it was in the Civil War or before the Civil War. I forget it. I think that I was born in Vicksburg,
Mississippi; I'm not sure, but I think it was.

"My mother was a great shouter. One night before I was born, she was at a meeting, and she
said, 'Well, I'll have to go in, I feel something.' She said I was walkin' about in there.
And when she went in, I was born that same night.

"My mother was a great Christian woman. She raised us right. We had to be in at sundown. If
you didn't bring it in at sundown, she'd whip you,--whip you within an inch of your life.

"She didn't work in the field. She worked at a loom. She worked so long and so often that once
she went to sleep at the loom. Her master's boy saw her and told his mother. His mother told
him to take a whip and wear her out. He took a stick and went out to beat her awake. He beat
my mother till she woke up. When she woke up, she took a pole out of the loom and beat him
nearly to death with it. He hollered, 'Don't beat me no more, and I won't let 'em whip you.'

"She said, 'I'm goin' to kill you. These black titties sucked you, and then you come out here
to beat me.' And when she left him, he wasn't able to walk.

"And that was the last I seen of her until after freedom. She went out and got on an old cow
that she used to milk--Dolly, she called it. She rode away from the plantation, because she
knew they would kill her if she stayed.

"My mother was named Luvenia Polk. She got plumb away and stayed away. On account of that,
I was raised by my mother. She went to Atchison, Kansas--rode all through them woods on that
cow. Tore her clothes all off on those bushes.

"Once a man stopped her and she said, 'My folks gone to Kansas and I don't know how to find
'em.' He told her just how to go.

"My father was an Indian. 'Way back in the dark days, his mother ran away, and when she came
up, that's what she come with--a little Indian boy. They called him 'Waw-hoo'che.' His master's
name was Tom Polk. Tom Polk was my mother's master too. It was Tom Polk's boy that my mother
beat up.

"My father wouldn't let nobody beat him either. One time when somethin' he had did didn't suit
Tom Polk--I don't know what it was--they cut sores on him that he died with. Cut him with a
raw-hide whip, you know. And then they took salt and rubbed it into the sores.

"He told his master, 'You have took me down and beat me for nothin', and when you do it again,
I'm goin' to put you in the ground.' Papa never slept in the house again after that. They got
scared and he was scared of them. He used to sleep in the woods.

"They used to call me 'Waw-hoo'che' and 'Red-Headed Indian Brat.' I got in a fight once with
my mistress' daughter,--on account of that.

"The children used to say to me, 'They beat your papa yesterday.'

"And I would say to them, 'They better not beat my papa,' and they would go up to the house
and tell it, and I would beat 'em for tellin' it.

"There was an old white man used to come out and teach papa how to read the Bible.

"Papa said, 'Ain't you 'fraid they'll kill you if they see you?'

"The old man said, 'No; they don't know what I'm doing, and don't you tell 'em. If you do,
they will kill me.'

Signs of the War

"One night my father called me outside and told me that he saw the elements opened up and soldiers
fighting in the heavens.

"'Don't you see them, honey?' he said; but I couldn't see them. And he said there was going
to be a war.

"I went out and told it. The white people said they ought to take him out and beat him and
make him hush his mouth. Because if they got such talk going 'round among the colored people,
they wouldn't be able to do nothin' with them. Dr. Polk's wife's father, Old Man Woods, used
to say that the niggers weren't goin' to be free. He said that God had showed that to him.

Mean Masters

"Dr. Polk and his son, the one my mother beat up and left lying on the ground, were two mean
men. When the slaves didn't pick enough cotton for them, they would take them down the field,
and turn up their clothes, till they was naked, and beat them nearly to death.

"Mother was a breeder. While she did that weaving, she had children fast. One day, Tom Polk
hit my mother. That was before she ran away. He hit her because she didn't pick the required
amount of cotton. When there was nothin' to do at the loom, mother had to go in the field,
you know. I forget how much cotton they had to pick. I don't know how many times he hit her.
I was small. I heard some one say, 'They got Clarisay Down, down there!' I went to see. And
they had her down. She was stout, and they had dug a hole in the ground to put her belly in.
I never did get over that. I'm an old woman, but Tom Polk better not come 'round me now even.

"I have heard women scream and holler, 'Do pray, massa, do pray.' And I was sure glad when
she beat up young Tom and got away. I didn't have no use for neither one of 'em, and ain't yet.

"It wasn't her work to be in the field. He made her breed and then made her work at the loom.
That wasn't nothin'. He would have children by a nigger woman and then have them by her daughter.

"I went out one day and got a gun. I don't know whose gun it was. I said to myself, 'If you
whip my mother today, I am goin' to shoot you.' I didn't know where the gun belonged. My oldest
sister told me to take it and set it by the door, and I did it.

How Freedom Came

"Dr. Polk had a fine horse. He came riding through the field and said, 'All you all niggers
are free now. You can stay here and work for me or you can go to the next field and work.'

"I had an old aunt that they used to make set on a log. She jumped off that log and ran down
the field to the quarters shouting and hollering.

"The people all said, 'Nancy's free; they ain't no ants biting her today.' She'd been setting
on that log one year. She wouldn't do no kind of work and they make her set there all day and
let the ants bite her.

"Big Niggers"

"They used to call my folks 'big niggers.' Papa used to get things off a steamboat. One day
he brought a big demi-john home and ordered all the people not to touch it. One day when he
went out, I went in it. I had to see what it was. I drunk some of it and when he came home
he said to me, 'You've been in that demi-john.' I said, 'No, I haven't.' But he said, 'Yes,
you have; I can tell by the way you look.' And then I told him the truth.

"He would get shoes, calico goods, coffee, sugar, and a whole lot of other things. Anything
he wanted, he would get. That he didn't, he would ask him to bring the next trip.

"It was a Union gunboat, and ran under the water. You could see the smoke. The white people
said, 'That boat's goin' to carry some of these niggers away from here one of these days.'

"And sure enough, it did carry one away.

Buried Treasure and a Runaway

"I went to the big gate one morning and there was a nigger named Charles there.

"I said, 'What you doing out here so early this morning?'

"He said to me, 'You hush yo' mouth and get on back up to the house.'

"I went back to the house and told my mother, 'I saw Charles out there.' That was before my
mother ran away.

"My mother said, 'He's fixing to run away. And he's got a barrel of money. And it belongs to
the Doctor. 'Cause he and the Dr. went out to bury it to keep the Yankees from getting it.'

"He ran away, and he took the money with him, too. He went out to Kansas City and bought a
home. We didn't think much of it, because we knew it was wrong to do it. But Old Master Tom
had done a heap of wrong too. He was the first one spotted the boat that morning--Charles was.
And he went away on it.

Plenty to Eat

"My father would kill a hog and keep the meat in a pit under the house. I know what it is now.
I didn't know then. He would clean the hog and everything before he would bring him to the
house. You had to come down outside the house and go into the pit when you wanted to get meat
to eat. If my father didn't have a hog, he would steal one from his master's pen and cut its
throat and bring it to the pit.

"My folks liked hog guts. We didn't try to keep them long. We'd jus' clean 'em and scrape 'em
and throw 'em in the pot. I didn't like to clean 'em but I sure loved to eat 'em. Father had
a great big pot they called the wash pot and we would cook the chit'lins in it. You could smell
'em all over the country. I didn't have no sense. Whenever we had a big hog killin', I would
say to the other kids, 'We got plenty of meat at our house.'

"They would say back, 'Where you got it?'

"I would tell 'em. And they would say, 'Give us some.'

"And I would say to them, 'No, that's for us.'

"So they called us 'big niggers.'

Marriages Since Freedom

"My first baby was born to my husband. I didn't throw myself away. I married Mr. Cragin in
1867. He lived with me about fifteen years before he died. He got kicked. He was a baker. During
the War, he was the cook in a camp. He went to get some flour one morning. He snatched the
tray too hard and it kicked him in his bowels. He never did get over it. The tray was full
of flour and it was big and heavy. It was a sliding tray. It rolled out easy and fast and you
had to pull it careful. I don't know why they called it a kick.

"I married a second husband--if you can call it that--a nigger named Jones. He had a spoonful
of sense. We didn't live together three months. He came in one day and I didn't have dinner
ready. He slapped me. I had never been slapped by a man before. I went to the drawer and got
my pistol out and started to kill him. But I didn't. I told him to leave there fast. He had
promised to do a lot of things and didn't do them, and then he used to use bad language too.

Occupation

"I've always sewed for a living. See that sign up there?" The sign read:

  ALL KINDS OF BUTTONS SEWED ON
          MENDING TOO

"I can't cut out no dress and make it, but I can use a needle on patching and quilting. Can't
nobody beat me doin' that. I can knit, too. I can make stockings, gloves, and all such things.

"I belong to Bib Bethel Church, and I get most of my support from the Lord. I get help from
the government. I'm trying to get moved, and I'm just sittin' here waiting for the man to come
and move me. I ain't got no money, but he promised to move me."

INTERVIEWER'S COMMENT

There it was--the appeal to the slush fund. I have contributed to lunch, tobacco, and cold
drinks, but not before to moving expenses. I had only six cents which I had reserved for car
fare. But after you have talked with people who are too old to work, too feeble to help themselves
in any effective fashion, hemmed up in a single room and unable to pay rent on that, odds and
ends of broken and dilapidated furniture, ragged clothes, and not even plenty of water on hand
for bathing, barely hanging on to the thread of life without a thrill or a passion, then it
is a great thing to have six cents to give away and to be able to walk any distance you want to.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Sallie Crane
                    See first paragraph in interviewer's comment
                    for residences
Age: 90, or more

[HW: Whipped from Sunup to Sundown]

"I was born in Hempstead County, between Nashville and Greenville, in Arkansas, on the Military
Road. Never been outside the state in my life. I was born ninety years ago. I been here in
Pulaski County nearly fifty-seven years.

"I was born in a old double log house chinked and dobbed. Nary a window and one door. I had
a bedstead made with saw and ax. Chairs were made with saw, ax, and draw knife. My brother
Orange made the furniture. We kept the food in boxes.

"My mother's name was Mandy Bishop, and my father's name was Jerry Bishop. I don't know who
my grand folks were. They was all Virginia folks--that is all I know. They come from Virginia,
so they told me. My old master was Harmon Bishop and when they divided the property I fell
to Miss Evelyn Bishop.

Age

"The first man that came through here writing us up for the Red Cross, I give him my age as
near as I could. And they kept that. You know peace was declared in 1865. They told me I was
free. I got scared and thought that the speculators were going to put me in them big droves
and sell me down in Louisiana. My old mistress said, 'You fool, you are free. We are going
to take you to your mammy.' I cried because I thought they was carrying me to see my mother
before they would send me to be sold in Louisiana. My old mistress said she would whip me.
But she didn't. When we got to my mother's, I said, 'How old is I?' She said, 'You are sixteen.'
She didn't say months, she didn't say years, she didn't say weeks, she didn't say days; she
just said, 'You are sixteen.' And my case worker told me that made me ninety years old.

"I was in Hempstead County on Harmon Bishop's plantation. It was Miss Polly, Harmon's wife,
that told me I was free, and give me my age.

"I know freedom come before 1865, because my brothers would tell me to come home from Nashville
where I would be sent to do nursing by my old mistress and master too to nurse for my young
mistress. 

I would have you consider that if you and your wife had not eaten, again your race would have
perished, and neither of you would ever have lived to have the children for whose protection,
as men tell me, you of Philistia avoid all mention of eating."

"Yes, for the object of this most righteous law," declares the lawman, "is to protect those
whose character is not so completely formed as to be proof against
the effect of meat market reports and grocery advertisements and menu
folders and other such provocatives to gluttony." But I thought
that she was fooling me and just wanted to sell me to the speculators.

Family

"My mother was the mother of twenty children and I am the mother of eighteen. My youngest is
forty-five. I don't know whether any of my mother's children is living now or not. I left them
that didn't join the militia in Hempstead County fifty-seven years ago. Them that joined the
militia went off. I don't know nothin' about them. I have two girls living that I know about.
I had two boys went to France and I never heard nothin' 'bout what happened to them. Nothing--not
a word. Red Cross has hunted 'em. Police Mitchell hunted 'em--police Mitchell in Little Rock.
But I ain't heard nothin' 'bout 'em.

Work

"The first work I did was nursing and after that I was water toter. I reckon I was about seven
or eight years old when I first began to nurse. I could barely lift the baby. I would have
to drag them 'round. Then I toted water to the field. Then when I was put to plowing, and chopping
cotton, I don't know exactly how old I was. But I know I was a young girl and it was a good
while before the War. I had to do anything that come up--thrashing wheat, sawing logs, with
a wristband on, lifting logs, splitting rails. Women in them days wasn't tender like they is
now. They would call on you to work like men and you better work too. My mother and father
were both field hands.

Soldiers

"Oo-oo-oo-ee-ee-ee!! Man, the soldiers would pass our house at daylight, two deep or four deep,
and be passing it at sundown still marching making it to the next stockade. Those were Yankees.
They didn't set no slaves free. When I knowed anything about freedom, it was the Bureaus. We
didn't know nothing like young folks do now.

"We hardly knowed our names. We was cussed for so many bitches and sons of bitches and bloody
bitches, and blood of bitches. We never heard our names scarcely at all. First young man I
went with wanted to know my initials! What did I know 'bout initials? You ask 'em ten years
old now, and they'll tell you. That was after the War. Initials!!!

Slave Sales

"Have I seen slaves sold! Good God, man! I have seed them sold in droves. I have worn a buck
and gag in my mouth for three days for trying to run away. I couldn't eat nor drink--couldn't
even catch the slobber that fell from my mouth and run down my chest till the flies settled
on it and blowed it. 'Scuse me but jus' look at these places. (She pulled open her waist and
showed scars where the maggots had eaten in--ed.)

Whippings

"I been whipped from sunup till sundown. Off and on, you know. They whip me till they got tired
and then they go and res' and come out and start again. They kept a bowl filled with vinegar
and salt and pepper settin' nearby, and when they had whipped me till the blood come, they
would take the mop and sponge the cuts with this stuff so that they would hurt more. They would
whip me with the cowhide part of the time and with birch sprouts the other part. There were
splinters long as my finger left in my back. A girl named Betty Jones come over and soaped
the splinters so that they would be softer and pulled them out. They didn't whip me with a
bull whip; they whipped me with a cowhide. They jus' whipped me 'cause they could--'cause they
had the privilege. It wasn't nothin' I done; they just whipped me. My married young master,
Joe, and his wife, Jennie, they was the ones that did the whipping. But I belonged to Miss Evelyn.

"They had so many babies 'round there I couldn't keep up with all of them. I was jus' a young
girl and I couldn't keep track of all them chilen. While I was turned to one, the other would
get off. When I looked for that one, another would be gone. Then they would whip me all day
for it. They would whip you for anything and wouldn't give you a bite of meat to eat to save
your life, but they'd grease your mouth when company come.

Food

"We et out of a trough with a wooden spoon. Mush and milk. Cedar trough and long-handled cedar
spoons. Didn't know what meat was. Never got a taste of egg. Oo-ee! Weren't allowed to look
at a biscuit. They used to make citrons. They were good too. When the little white chilen would
be comin' home from school, we'd run to meet them. They would say, 'Whose nigger are you?'
And we would say, 'Yor'n!' And they would say, 'No, you ain't.' They would open those lunch
baskets and show us all that good stuff they'd brought back. Hold it out and snatch it back!
Finally, they'd give it to us, after they got tired of playing.

Health

"They're burying old Brother Jim Mullen over here today. He was an old man. They buried one
here last Sunday--eighty some odd. Brother Mullen had been sick for thirty years. Died settin'
up--settin' up in a chair. The old folks is dyin' fas'. Brother Smith, the husband of the old
lady that brought you down here, he's in feeble health too. Ain't been well for a long time.

"Look at that place on my head. (There was a knot as big as a hen egg--smooth and shiny--ed.)
When it first appeared, it was no bigger then a pea, I scratched it and then the hair commenced
to fall out. I went to three doctors, and been to the clinic too. One doctor said it was a
busted vein. Another said it was a tumor. Another said it was a wen. I know one thing. It don't
hurt me. I can scratch it; I can rub it. (She scratched and rubbed it while I flinched and
my flesh crawled--ed.) But it's got me so I can't see and hear good. Dr. Junkins, the best
doctor in the community told me not to let anybody cut on it. Dr. Hicks wanted to take it off
for fifty dollars. I told him he'd let it stay on for nothin'. I never was sick in my life
till a year ago. I used to weigh two hundred ten pounds; now I weigh one hundred forty. I can
lap up enough skin on my legs to go 'round 'em twice.

"Since I was sick a year ago. I haven't been able to get 'round any. I never been well since.
The first Sunday in January this year, I got worse settin' in the church. I can't hardly get
'round enough to wait on myself. But with what I do and the neighbors' help, I gets along somehow.

Present Condition

"If it weren't for the mercy of the people through here. I would suffer for a drink of water.
Somebody ran in on old lady Chairs and killed her for her money. But they didn't get it, and
we know who it was too. Somebody born and raised right here 'mongst us. Since then I have been
'fraid to stay at home even.

