MELBOURNE (491), the capital of Victoria, at the head of Port Phillip Bay; is the largest and
most important city in Australia; built in broad regular streets, with much architectural beauty,
and containing, besides the Government buildings, a Roman and an Anglican cathedral, a mint
and a university, numerous colleges, hospitals, and other institutions. Its shipping interests
are very large; a ship canal enables the largest ships to reach the quays; exports of gold
and wool are extensive. Melbourne is the railway centre of the continent. It has manufactures
of boots and clothing, foundries and flour-mills. It has a hot climate. Its water supply is
abundant, but defective drainage impairs its healthfulness. First settled in 1835, it was incorporated
in 1842, and nine years later was made capital of the newly constituted colony. It was the
scene of an exhibition in 1888, of a great industrial struggle in 1890, and of a very severe
financial crisis in 1893.

MELBOURNE, WILLIAM LAMB, VISCOUNT, English statesman, born in London; educated at Cambridge
and Glasgow Universities; entered Parliament as a Whig in 1805, but was Chief Secretary for
Ireland in the Governments of Canning, Goderich, and Wellington; succeeding to the title in
1828, he reverted to his old party; was Home Secretary under Earl Grey in 1830, and was himself
Prime Minister for four months in 1834, and then from 1835 till 1841, when he retired from
public life; he was a man of sound sense, and showed admirable tact in introducing the young
queen to her various duties in 1837 (1779-1848). 

When she reached the courtyard, there she beheld a goodly company of nobles and ladies seated and
feasting at a huge table. There were, likewise, plenty of servants, who waited upon them,
changing their plates, handing round the viands, and pouring out wine for the party.


MELEAGER, a Greek mythic hero, distinguished for throwing the javelin, and by his skill in
it slaying a wild boar which devastated his country, and whose life depended on the burning
down of a brand that was blazing on the hearth at the time of his birth, but which his mother
at once snatched from the flames. But a quarrel having arisen between him and his uncles over
the head of the boar, in which they met their death, the mother to be avenged on him for slaying
her brothers threw back into the fire the brand on the preservation of which his life depended,
and on the instant he breathed his last.

MELIORISM, the theory that there is in nature a tendency to better and better development.

MELODRAMA, a play consisting of sensational incidents, and arranged to produce striking effects.

MELPOMENË, the one of the nine muses which presides over tragedy.

MELROSE, a small town in Roxburghshire, at the foot of the Eildons, on the S. bank of the Tweed,
famed for its abbey, founded by David I. in 1136; it is celebrated by Sir Walter Scott in his
"Lay of the Last Minstrel."

MELTON-MOWBRAY (6), a town 15 m. NE. of Leicester, the centre of the great hunting district;
celebrated for its pork pies.

MELUSINA, a fairy of French legend, who married Raymond, a knight, on condition that on a particular
day of the week he would not visit her, a stipulation which he was tempted to break, so that
on a day of her seclusion he broke into her chamber, and found the lower part of her body from
the waist downwards transformed into that of a serpent, upon which she straightway flew out
at the window, to hover henceforth round the castle of her lord and only appear again on the
occasion of the death of any of the inmates.

MELVILLE, ANDREW, Scottish Presbyterian ecclesiastic, born near Montrose; of good and even
wide repute as a scholar; became Principal first of Glasgow College and then of St. Mary's
College, St. Andrews; was zealous for the headship of Christ over the Church, in opposition
to the claim of the king, James, and spoke his mind freely both to the king and the bishops,
for which he was sent to the Tower; on his release, after four years, he retired to a professorship
at Sedan, in France, having been forbidden to return to Scotland (1545-1622).

MELVILLE, WHYTE-, novelist; his novels were chiefly of the hunting field, such as "Katerfelto"
and "Black, but Comely," though he wrote historical ones also, such as "The Queen's Maries"
(1821-1878).

MEMEL (19), Baltic seaport at the mouth of the Kurisches Haff, in the extreme NE. of Prussia;
ships great quantities of Russian and Lithuanian timber, and has some chemical works and shipbuilding
yards.

MEMNON, a son of Tithonus and Aurora, who was sent by his father, king of Egypt and Ethiopia,
to the assistance of Troy on the death of Hector, and who slew Antilochus, the son of Nestor,
and was himself slain by Achilles, whereupon Aurora, all tears, besought Zeus to immortalise
his memory, which, however, did not calm her sorrow, for ever since the earth bears witness
to her weeping in the dews of the morning; a statue, presumed to be to his memory, was erected
near Thebes, in Egypt, which was fabled to emit a musical sound every time the first ray fell
on it from the rosy fingers of Aurora.

MEMPHIS, an ancient city of Egypt, of which it was the capital; it was founded by Menes at
the apex of the delta of the Nile, and contained 700,000 inhabitants.

MEMPHIS (102), a Tennessee port on the Mississippi, 826 m. above New Orleans, accessible to
the largest vessels, is also a great railway centre, and therefore a place of great commercial
importance; has many industries, and a great cotton market.

MENADO (549), a Dutch colony in the N. of Celebes.

MENAI STRAIT, a picturesque channel separating Anglesey from Carnarvonshire, 14 m. long and
at its narrowest 200 yards wide; is crossed by a suspension bridge (1825) and the Britannia
Tubular Bridge for railway (1850).

MENANDER, a Greek comic poet, born at Athens; was the pupil of Theophrastus and a friend of
Epicurus; of his works, which were numerous, we have only some fragments, but we can judge
of them from his imitator TERENCE (q. v.) (342-291 B.C.).

MENCIUS or MENG-TZE, a celebrated Chinese sage, a disciple, some say a grandson, of Confucius
(q. v.); went up and down with his disciples from court to court in the country to persuade,
particularly the ruling classes, to give heed to the words of wisdom, though in vain; after
which, on his death, his followers collected his teachings in a book entitled the "Book of
Meng-tze," which is full of practical instruction (372-289 B.C.).

MENDICANT ORDER, a religious fraternity, the members of which denude themselves of all private
property and live on alms.

MENDELSSOHN-BARTHOLDY, FELIX, celebrated German composer, grandson of the succeeding, born
in Hamburg; he began to compose early in life, and his compositions consisted of symphonies,
operas, oratorios, and church music; his oratorios of "St. Paul" and "Elijah" are well known,
and are enduring monuments of his genius; he was a man universally loved and esteemed, and
had the good fortune to live amidst the happiest surroundings (1809-1847).

MENDELSSOHN, MOSES, a German philosopher, born at Dessau, of Jewish descent, a zealous monotheist,
and wrote against Spinoza; was author of the "Phædon, a Discourse on the Immortality of the
Soul," and did a great deal in his day to do away with the prejudices of the Jews and the prejudices
against them; he was the friend of Lessing, and is the prototype of his "Nathan" (1720-1786).

MENDOZA (137), province in the extreme W. of Argentina; has the Andes in the W., Aconcagua
(23,500 ft.), the highest peak in the New World, otherwise is chiefly worthless pampa, fertile
only where irrigated from the small Mendoza River; there vines flourish; copper is plentiful,
coal and oil are found. MENDOZA (20), the capital, 640 m. W. of Buenos Ayres by rail, is on
the Trans-Andine route to Chili, with which it trades largely; suffers frequently from earthquakes.

MENELAUS, king of Sparta, the brother of Agamemnon and the husband of Helen, the carrying away
of whom by Paris led to the Trojan War.

MENHIR, a kind of rude obelisk understood to be a sepulchral monument.

MENINGES, the name of three membranes that invest the brain and spinal cord, and the inflammation
of which is called meningitis.

MENNONITES, a Protestant sect founded at Zurich with a creed that combines the tenets of the
Baptists with those of the Quakers; have an episcopal form of government, and maintain a rigorous
church discipline.

MENSCHIKOFF, ALEXANDER DANILOVITCH, Russian soldier and statesman, born in humble life at Moscow;
became servant to Lefort, on whose death he succeeded him as favourite of Peter the Great,
whom he accompanied to Holland and England; in the Swedish War (1702-1713) he won renown, and
was created field-marshal on the field of Pultowa; he introduced to the Czar Catharine, afterwards
czarina, whom he captured at Marienburg, and when Peter died secured the throne for her; during
her reign and her successor's he governed Russia, but his ambition led the nobles to banish
him to Siberia 1727 (1672-1729).

MENSCHIKOFF, ALEXANDER SERGEIEVITCH, general, great-grandson of the former, served in the wars
of 1812-15, in the Turkish campaign of 1828, was ambassador to the Porte in 1853, and largely
responsible for the Crimean War, in which he commanded at Alma, Inkermann, and Sebastopol (1789-1869).

MENTEITH, LAKE OF, a small beautiful loch in Perthshire, 13 m. W. of Stirling, with three islets,
on one of which stood a priory where, as a child, Mary Stuart spent 1547-48; on another stood
the stronghold of the earls.

MENTHOL, a crystalline substance obtained from the oil of peppermint, used in nervous affections,
such as neuralgia, as a counter-irritant.

MENTONE (8), town and seaport in France, on the Mediterranean, 1½ m. from the Italian border;
was under the princes of Monaco till 1848, when it subjected itself to Sardinia, which afterwards
handed it over to France; protected by the Alps, the climate is delightful, and renders it
a favourite health resort in winter and spring; it exports olive-oil and fruit.

MENTOR, a friend of Ulysses, and the tutor of his son Telemachus, whose form and voice Athena
assumed in order to persuade his pupil to retain and maintain the courage and astuteness of
his father.

MENZEL, ADOLF, German painter, born at Breslau, professor at Berlin; best known for his historical
pictures and drawings; b. 1815.

MENZEL, WOLFGANG, German author and critic, born in Silesia; wrote on German history, literature,
and poetry, as well as general history, and maintained a vigorous polemic against all who by
their writings or their politics sought to subvert the Christian religion or the orthodox policy
of the German monarchies (1789-1873).

MEPHISTOPHELES, the impersonation in Goethe's "Faust" of the modern devil, the incarnation
of the spirit of universal scepticism and scoffing, who can see not only no beauty in goodness
but no deforming in iniquity, alike without reverence for God and fear of his adversary, blind
as a mole to all worth and all unworth throughout the universe, yet knowing and boastful of
knowledge, by means of which he sees only "the ridiculous, the unsuitable, the bad, but for
the solemn, the noble, the worthy is blind as his ancient mother." 

Upon a high mountain in the Tyrol there stands an old castle, in which there burns a fire every night,
and the flashes of that fire are so large that they rise up over
the walls, and may be seen far and wide.

It happened once that an old woman in want of firewood was gathering the fallen twigs and branches
upon this castle-crowned mountain, and at length arrived at the castle door. To indulge her curiosity
she began peering about her, and at last entered, not without difficulty, for it was all in
ruins and not easily accessible.

MERCIA, one of the three chief kingdoms of early England; founded by Anglian settlers in the
Upper Trent Valley (now South Staffordshire) In the 6th century; it rose to greatness under
Penda 626-655, subsequently succeeded Northumberland in the supremacy, but after the death
of Cenwulf 819, waned in turn before Wessex and the Danes.

MERCURY, the Roman name for the Greek Hermes, the son of Jupiter and Maia, the messenger of
the gods, the patron of merchants and travellers, and the conductor of the souls of the dead
to the nether world.

MERCURY, an interior planet of the Solar system, whose orbit is nearest the sun, the greatest
distance being nearly 43,000,000 m. and the least over 28,000,000, is one-seventeenth the size
of the earth, but is of greater density, and accomplishes its revolution in about 84 days;
it is visible just before the sun rises and after it sets, but that very seldom owing to the
sun's neighbourhood.

MER-DE-GLACE, the great glacier of the Alps near Chamouni, was the subject of the experiments
of Professor J. D. Forbes of Edinburgh about 1843, and on which the movement of the glaciers
was first observed.

MEREDITH, GEORGE, poet and novelist, born in Hampshire; began his literary career 1851 as a
poet, in which capacity he has since distinguished himself and given expression to his deepest
personal convictions, but it is chiefly as a novelist he is most widely known and is generally
judged of; as a novel-writer he occupies a supreme place, and is reckoned superior in that
department to all his contemporaries in the same line by the unanimous consent of one and all
of them; his novels, however, appeal only to a select few, but by them they are regarded with
unbounded admiration, some giving preference to this and others to that of the series; "The
Ordeal of Richard Feveril," published in 1859, is by many considered his best, though it is
over "The Egoist" that Louis Stevenson breaks out into raptures; Meredith has most sympathetic
insights into nature and life, has a marvellous power in analysing and construing character,
and shows himself alive to all the great immediate interests of humanity; b. 1828.

MEREDITH, OWEN, the nom de plume assumed by Edward Robert Bulwer Lytton, from his descent from
a Welsh noble of the name.

MERGUI, a small seaport near the mouth of the Tenasserim, British Burma, which exports birds'
nests to China.

MERIDIAN, an imaginary great circle passing through the poles at right angles to the equator.

MÈRIMÈE, PROSPER, a great French writer, born in Paris; abandoned law, to which he was bred,
for literature; became under Louis Philippe inspector-general of historical documents, and
travelled in that capacity in the S. and W. of France, publishing from time to time the fruits
of his researches; he wrote in exquisite style stories, historical dissertations, and travels,
among other works "Guzla," "Chronicles of Charles IX.," the "History of Don Pedro, King of
Castile," "Letters to an Unknown"; he was a man of singularly enigmatic character (1802-1870).

MERIO`NETH (49), a mountainous county of North Wales, abutting on Cardigan Bay, between Carnarvon
and Cardigan; lofty peaks, Aran Mowddy, Cader Idris, and Aran Benllyn; rivers, Dee and Dovey,
and Lake Bala afford picturesque scenery; the soil is fit only for sheep-grazing; but there
are slate and limestone quarries, manganese and gold mines; the county town, Dolgelly (2),
on the Wnion, has woollen and tweed manufactures.

MERIVALE, CHARLES, dean of Ely, born at Exeter; held a succession of appointments as lecturer;
wrote a history of Rome from its foundation in 753 to the fall of Augustus in 476, but his
chief work is the "History of the Romans under the Empire," indispensable as an Introduction
to Gibbon (1808-1893).

MERLE D'AUBIGNÉ, JEAN-HENRI. See D'AUBIGNÉ, MERLE.

MERLIN, a legendary Welsh prophet and magician, child of a wizard and a princess, who lived
in the 5th century, and was subsequently a prominent personage at King Arthur's' court; prophecies
attributed to him existed as far back as the 14th century; Tennyson represents him as bewitched
by Vivian; legend also tells of a Clydesdale Merlin of the 6th century; his prophecies, published
in 1615, include the former; both legends are based on Armorican materials.

MERMAIDS and MERMEN (i. e. sea-maids and sea-men), a class of beings fabled to inhabit the
sea, with a human body as far as the waist, ending in the tail of a fish; the females of them
represented above the surface of the sea combing their long hair with one hand and holding
a mirror with the other; they are supposed to be endowed with the gift of prophecy, and are
of an amorous temper.

MEROVINGIANS, a name given to the first dynasty that ruled over France, and which derives its
name from Merovig, the founder of the family.

MERRILEES, MEG, a half-crazy Border gipsy; one of the characters in Scott's "Guy Mannering."

MERRY MONARCH, a title by which Charles II. of England was at one time familiarly known.

MERSEY, river rising in NW. Derbyshire, flows westward 70 m. between Lancashire and Cheshire
to the Irish Sea; is of great commercial importance, having Liverpool on its estuary; its chief
tributary is the Irwell, on which stands Manchester.

MERTHYR-TYDVIL (58), industrial town in Glamorganshire, on the Taff, 15 m. NW. of Cardiff;
is the centre of great coal-fields and of enormous iron and steel works, which constitute the
only industry.

MERV (500), an oasis in Turkestan, belonging to Russia, being conquered in 1883, 60 m. long
by 40 broad, producing cereals, cotton, silk, &c.; breeds horses, camels, sheep, with a capital
of the same name, on the Transcaspian railway.

MERYON, CHARLES, etcher of street scenes, born at Paris; son of English doctor; died insane
(18211868).

MESMER, FRIEDRICH ANTON, a German physician, born near Constance; bred for the Church, but
took to medicine; was the founder of animal magnetism, called mesmerism after him, his experiments
in connection with which created a great sensation, particularly in Paris, until the quackery
of it was discovered by scientific investigation, upon which he retired into obscurity, "to
walk silent on the shore of the Bodensee, meditating on much" (1733-1815).

MESMERISM, animal magnetism so called, or the alleged power which, by operating on the nervous
system, one person obtains control over the thoughts and actions of another.

MESOPOTAMIA, the name given after Alexander the Great's time to the territory "between the
rivers" Euphrates and Tigris, stretching from Babylonia NW. to the Armenian mountains; under
irrigation it was very fertile, but is now little cultivated; once the scene of high civilisation
when Nineveh ruled it; it passed from Assyrian hands successively to Babylonian, Persian, Greek,
Roman, and Arab; now, after many vicissitudes, it is in the deathly grasp of Turkish rule.

MESSENIA, a province of Greece, mainly the fertile peninsula between the Gulfs of Arcadia and
Coron; in ancient times the Messenians were prosperous, excited Spartan envy, and after two
long wars were conquered in 668 B.C. and fled to Sicily.

MESSIAH (i. e. the Anointed one), one consecrated of God, who the Jewish prophets predicted
would one day appear to emancipate the Jewish people from bondage and exalt them in the eyes
of all the other nations of the earth as His elect nation, and for the glory of His name.

MESSINA (78), on a bay at the NE. corner of Sicily; is a very ancient city, but rebuilt after
the earthquake of 1783; has a 12th-century cathedral, two old castles, and a university, founded
1549; it manufactures light textiles, coral ornaments, and fruit essences; its excellent harbour
encourages a good trade.

MESSINA, STRAIT OF, 24 m. long, and at its narrowest 2½ broad; separates Sicily from the Italian
mainland; here were the Scylla and Charybdis of the ancients.

MESSUAGE, a dwelling-house with buildings and land attached for the use of the household.

METABOLISM, name given to a chemical change in the cells or tissues of living matter.

METAMORPHOSIS is a classical name for the changing of a human being into a beast, an inanimate
object, or an element, stories of which are common in all folk-lore.

METAPHYSICS, the science of being as being in contradistinction from a science of a particular
species of being, the science of sciences, or the science of the ultimate grounds of all these,
and presupposed by them, called by Plato dialectics, or the logic of being.

METASTASIO, an Italian poet, born at Rome, the son of a common soldier named Trapassi; his
power of improvising verse attracted the attention of one Gravina, a lawyer, who educated him
and left him his fortune; he wrote opera librettoes, which were set to music by the most eminent
composers, was court poet at Vienna, and died there 40 years after his active powers were spent
(1698-1782).

METEORS or SHOOTING STARS are small bodies consisting of iron, stone, and certain other familiar
elements which are scattered in immense numbers through planetary space; they revolve round
the sun in clouds or in long strings, and when the earth gets close to them numbers are drawn
down to its surface, friction with the atmosphere rendering them luminous and grinding them
usually to fine dust; larger meteors are known as fireballs and aërolites, many of which have
reached the earth; comets are masses of meteors.

METHODISTS, a body of Christians founded by John Wesley in the interests of personal religion,
ecclesiastically governed by a Conference with subordinate district synods, and holding and
professing evangelical principles, which they teach agreeably to the theology of Arminius;
the name is also given to the followers of Whitefield, who are Calvinists in certain respects.

METHYLATED SPIRIT, is alcohol adulterated with 10 per cent. of wood-spirit.

METIS (i. e. wise counsel), in the Greek mythology the daughter of Oceanos and Tethys, and
the first wife of Zeus; afraid lest she should give birth to a child wiser and more powerful
than himself, he devoured her on the first month of her pregnancy, and some time afterwards
being seized with pains, he gave birth to ATHENA (q. v.) from his head.

MÈTRE, the name given to the unit of length in the metric or decimal system, and equal to 39.37
English inches, the tenths, the hundreds, and the thousands of which are called from the Latin
respectively decimetres, centimetres, and millimetres, and ten times, a hundred times, and
a thousand times, which are called from the Greek respectively decamètres, hectomètres, and
kilomètres. 

A nation which knew all the laws of phenomena, but which was utterly lacking in moral force,
would not only not be civilized, but would hardly be alive. Mr. Buckle insists that moral truths
being relatively stationary, while intellectual truths are constantly advancing and multiplying,
civilization cannot depend upon them. But even admitting that moral truths are stationary, still
moral life, the conversion of these truths into character, is capable of indefinite advancement.
There are moral truths more universal than any scientific truths, and it is owing to the fact
that these truths have so imperfectly passed from abstractions into conduct, that civilization
is yet so imperfect, and the achievements of the intellect still so limited.


METZ (60), strongest fortress in Lorraine, on the Moselle, 105 m. SW. of Coblenz, captured
in 1870 from the French, who had held it since 1552; has a cathedral, library, museum, and
school of music; industries are unimportant; the trade is in liquor, leather, and preserved fruits.

MEUNG, JEAN DE, mediæval French satirist; continued the unfinished "Roman de la Rose," in which
he embodied a vivid satiric portraiture of contemporary life (1250-1305 ?).

MEUSE, river, 500 m. long, rises in Haute-Marne, France, and becoming navigable flows N. through
Belgium, turns E. at Namur, where the Sambre enters from the left, N. again at Liège, where
it receives the Ourthe from the right; enters Holland at Maastricht, is for a time the boundary,
finally trends westward, and joins the Rhine at the delta.

MEXICO (12,050), a federal republic of 27 States, a district, and two territories, lying S.
of the United States, between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific, and including the peninsulas
of Lower California in the W. and Yucatan in the E.; is nearly half as large as Europe without
Russia; it consists of an immense plateau 3000 to 8000 ft. high, from which rises the Sierra
Nevada, 10,000 ft., running N. and S., and other parallel ranges, as also single peaks. Toluca
(19,340 ft.), Orizaba (18,000), and Popocatapetl (17,000); the largest lake is Chapala, in
the centre; the rivers are mostly rapid and unnavigable; the chief seaports are Vera Cruz (29)
and Tampico (5) on the E. and Acapulco on the W., but the coast-line is little indented and
affords no good harbours; along the eastern seaboard runs a strip of low-lying unhealthy country,
60 m. broad; on the Pacific side the coast land is sometimes broader; these coast-lines are
well watered, with tropical vegetation, tropical and sub-tropical fruits; the higher ground
has a varied climate; in the N. are great cattle ranches; all over the country the mineral
wealth is enormous, gold, silver, copper, iron, sulphur, zinc, quicksilver, and platinum are
wrought; coal also exists; the bulk of Mexican exports is of precious metals and ores; there
are cotton, paper, glass, and pottery manufactures; trade is chiefly with the United States
and Britain; imports being textile fabrics, hardware, machinery, and coal; one-fifth of the
population is white, the rest Indian and half-caste; education is backward, though there are
free schools in every town; the religion is Roman Catholic, the language Spanish; conquered
by Cortez in 1519, the country was ruled by Spain and spoiled for 300 years; a rebellion established
its independence in 1821, but the first 50 years saw perpetual civil strife, and wars with
the United States in 1848 and France in 1862; since 1867, however, when the constitution was
modelled on that of the United States, there has been peace and progress, Ponfirio Diaz, President
since 1876, having proved a masterly ruler. MEXICO (327), the capital of the republic, 7000
ft. above the level of the sea, in the centre of the country, is a handsome though unhealthy
city, with many fine buildings, a cathedral, a picture-gallery, schools of law, mining, and
engineering, a conservatory of music, and an academy of art; there are few manufactures; the
trade is chiefly transit.

MEXICO, GULF OF, a large basin between United States and Mexican territory; is shut in by the
peninsulas of Florida and Yucatan, 500 m. apart, and the western extremity of Cuba, which lies
between them; it receives the Mississippi, Rio Grande, and many other rivers; the coasts are
low, with many lagoons; ports like New Orleans, Havana, and Vera Cruz make it a highway for
ships; north-easterly hurricanes blow in March and October.

MEYER, CONRAD FERDINAND, Swiss poet and novelist, native of Zurich; has written "Der Heilige"
and many other novels; b. 1825.

MEYERBEER, illustrious musical composer, born at Berlin, of Jewish birth; composer of operatic
music, and for over 30 years supreme in French opera; produced "Robert le Diable" in 1831,
the "Huguenots" in 1833, "Le Prophète" in 1844, "L'Étoile du Nord" in 1854, the "Dinorah" in
1859 (1791-1864).

MEZZOFANTI, GIUSEPPE, cardinal and linguist, born at Bologna; celebrated for the number of
languages he knew, some 58 in all; lived chiefly in Rome, and was keeper of the Vatican library;
Byron called him "a walking polyglot" (1771-1848).

MEZZOTINT, a mode of engraving on steel or copper in imitation of Indian ink drawings, the
lights and shades of the picture being produced by scraping on a black ground.

MIALL, EDWARD, journalist, English apostle of disestablishment, founder of the Liberation Society;
sat for Rochdale and Bradford; was presented on his retirement with a sum of ten thousand guineas
for his services (1809-1881).

MICAH, one of the minor prophets of the Old Testament, a contemporary of Isaiah, Hosea, and
Amos; his prophecies are in the same strain as those of Isaiah, and numerous are the coincidences
traceable between them; though a great sternness of temper and severity of tone appears in
his prophecies, a deep tenderness of heart from time to time reveals itself, and a winning
persuasiveness (chap. vi. 8); chap. vii. 8-20 has been quoted as one of the sweetest passages
of prophetic writing; his prophecies predict the destruction both of Samaria and Jerusalem,
the captivity and the return, with the re-establishment of the theocracy, and the advent of
the Messiah.

MICAWBER, a character in "David Copperfield," a schemer whose schemes regularly came to grief,
yet who always wakes up after his depression, and hopes something will turn up to his advantage.

MICHAEL, an archangel, the leader of the heavenly host, at never-ending war with the devil
and his angels in their arrogance of claim; is represented in art as clad in armour, with a
sword in one hand and a pair of scales in the other to weigh the souls of men at the judgment.
Festival, September 20.

MICHAEL, the name of a succession of eight emperors who, at different periods, occupied the
throne of the East from 811 to 1282, the last being Michael VIII., the founder of the Palæologic
dynasty.

MICHAEL ANGELO BUONAROTTI, painter, sculptor, architect, and poet, born at Caprese, in Tuscany,
one of the greatest artists that ever lived; studied art as apprentice for three years under
Domenico Ghirlandajo, and at seventeen his talents attracted the notice of Lorenzo de' Medici,
who received him into his palace at Florence, and employed as well as encouraged him; on the
death of his patron he left for Bologna, and afterwards, in 1496, went to Rome, whither his
renown as a sculptor had gone before him, and there he executed his antiques "Bacchus" and
"Cupid," followed by his "Pieta," or Virgin weeping over the dead Christ; from 1503 to 1513
he was engaged on the ceiling in the Sistine Chapel; in 1530 we find him at Florence dividing
his time between work as an engineer in the defence of the city and his art as a sculptor;
three years after this he was back in Rome, and by-and-by busy painting his great fresco in
the Sistine Chapel, the "Last Judgment," which occupied him eight years; in 1542 he was appointed
architect of St. Peter's, and he planned and built the dome; sculpture was his great forte,
but his genius was equal to any task imposed on him, and he has left poems to show what he
might have done in the domain of letters as he has done in those of arts, with which his fame
is more intimately associated (1474-1564).

