Good-night, mother; these are sad times, but we must not lose courage. I wish I could see you
to-night.

                                                         August 1, 1915.

To say that I was delighted will not express my feelings when I got the letter from the Loyalist
Chapter, I. O. D. E., enclosing cheque. It was awfully good of them to help us here, for I
realize the demands for help on every side and it is only natural that they should send to
the Canadians first. But O! it is so badly needed and will do so much good here. I had been
racking my brain trying to think of a way to scratch up a few pennies, and then this delightful
surprise came.

This hospital is called the "Paradise of the Seventh Region," for it is so very far ahead of
most of the French military hospitals. But while there is a good deal of luxury on one side,
such as pleasant airy rooms, comfortable beds, good food and air, on the other hand there is
a great lack of what we consider necessities. The first thing I did when I got the letter with
the money was to order a foot tub for each floor, slippers for the patients when they are in
the house, scissors for the pharmacy and for each floor, and various other small things that
I have been longing for and that will save many steps. Now that the capacity of the hospital
has been increased by fifty beds, it is more difficult than ever to get money from the general
fund for things of that kind; it really has to be kept for food and heating. We also need instruments
and basins, etc., for a table for dressings in the new ward, as we have absolutely nothing.
Then it is so nice to have a fund that we can draw on in case of need. Sometimes the men are
terribly poor and cannot afford to get anything for themselves when they leave. Sometimes a
ticket for a wife or daughter to come to see them and cheer them up. It is the second time
some of these men have been wounded and they have not seen their families for a year.

It is just a year to-day (August 1st) since mobilization began. At five o'clock in the morning
the tocsin sounded and all the village gathered at the Town Hall to read the notice of mobilization.
There were many sad and anxious hearts then, but many more now, for there is not a family who
has not lost someone who is near and dear to them--and still it goes on. I wonder when the
end will come.

My prize patient, Daillet, walks down stairs by himself now by holding on to the railing like
a child. We are all proud of him. The doctor who sent him here from Besançon came in the other
day to see how he was getting on and he could not believe it when he saw him.

I am almost asleep so I must stop. I made a mistake this morning, got up at half-past four
instead of half-past five.

                                                        August 15, 1915.

In the face of all the terrible things which are happening one must not worry over little things.
I have got to the stage now when I feel as if one should never complain or worry if they have
a roof over their heads and enough to eat, and that all one's efforts should be given to helping
others.

I feel perfectly overwhelmed with the letters that ought to be written, but cannot find time
to do them. I have been up all night and a couple of days. We got thirty new patients last
night. They arrived at 3 a.m. and it was half-past five before we got them to bed. I did not
get any of this lot, as my rooms were full. There were not so many wounded,--more sick, rheumatism,
bronchitis, etc. One poor man said it was like going directly from hell to heaven; it was the
first time he had slept in a bed for a year. Some of them have been wounded for the second time.

It is nearly eleven and I must be up early, so good-night.

                                                        August 23, 1915.

Your letter has been long delayed, as they are very strict and holding up the mails again.

We heard this morning that there are French troops guarding the border at Crassier, just half
a mile from here. We hear all the Swiss border is to be protected by barbed wire. I do not
know what it all means unless it is on account of spies.

We got fifteen more patients last week, one yesterday and one to-day, but as several went away
we have still the same number--eighty-four.

We have had a very busy morning. An inspector arrived just as we were ready to operate, and
between the two I did not know whether I was on my head or my heels. Thirty of our men will
go off on Monday and we will probably get a train full later in the week.

We have a phonograph with a rasping voice that plays from morning to night. The soldiers love
it; the poor things are so used to noise that they don't seem happy without it, but sometimes
I feel as if I could scream.

One of the men got a telegram saying his mother was dying; the doctor gave him forty-eight
hours leave--all he could possibly do--so he went home and has just got back; could not stay
for the funeral, but was so thankful to have been able to see her. If he had been at the front
that would not have been possible--only another sad consequence of the war. Another soldier
received the news of the death of his little girl.

Miss Todd took me out in her motor the other day. We had a beautiful run over the mountains;
the view was magnificent. We took one of the soldiers with us and he enjoyed himself immensely;
it was the first time he had ever been in one.

                                                Sunday, August 29, 1915.

It is pouring rain, it is sad to say, as the soldiers are having a little celebration. A band
came from Noyon and the Count de Divonne made a speech, two of the men received their Croix
de Guerre, the doctor made such a nice little speech to each of them. It was very touching
to see the groups of men, some with arms in slings and others with legs and heads bandaged,
and some who could not stand at all, still others were in their beds. The decorations were
given in the Grand Salle.

I am not sure if all your letters reach me or not, sometimes I get two in a week and then again
none for three weeks.

Thirty-three men go off to-morrow, some of them cured and back to the front, some who will
never be better, and some to go home on convalescence.

To-day the florist in the village sent a clothes basket full of roses to the Ambulance for
the fete. I thought of you and wished you could have some.

                                                      September 5, 1915.

Thanks for the money you sent from a friend in your last letter. I will use it wisely and make
it go as far as possible. There will be more suffering this winter than there was last, but
they are so brave, these people, they seldom complain of anything.

There is a little woman here whose husband was killed. She makes twenty cents a day selling
papers and gets ten cents a day pension. about
three years ago. A few black-clad people were standing around the open grave. The Men in a
certain cavalier even nobility with large beards or completely shaven Faces, those wrinkles around
the lips, which generally considered a sign of mourning and emotion, women are much less important,
with handkerchiefs in their hands, and the focus of this serious group, a small, helpless, white-haired
woman. She was very overwhelmed by their pain, he had completely taken possession. Every twitch
of poor Figure, each pleading choked her voice was his. Therefore, they had to be on everything
her mind on her son, the poor Bohush. He was badly surprised.


I expect to leave here in two weeks to go to an Ambulance at the front. It is somewhere in
the north in Belgium. I think Dr. R---- is sorry to have me leave, but it will be a much larger
field and the kind of a place where there will be much to do. They have all been so nice to
me here about helping me get my papers ready to send to the Minister of War, so I do not think
there will be any difficulty of my getting through. I go to Paris first, then to Dunkirk, where
Mrs. T---- will meet me, after that my destination is uncertain. Do not worry if you do not
hear from me regularly, for it may be difficult to get mail through. I will write as usual.

I cannot tell you how glad I am to be able to go to the front, for it means a chance to do
good work and I shall be so glad to be in the north when B---- comes over and nearer the Canadian
boys. Even if I cannot see them I shall not feel so far away.

One of my men to-day got word that his baby, seven months old, had just died and the little
girl of two is very ill. He expected to go next week and has been counting the days till he
could see them. He has never seen the baby as it was born after the war began--another one
of the sad things of this awful war.

Good-night; I am so glad of the chance of active service.

                                                     September 16, 1915.

It was awfully good of Miss W---- to send the money to me, it is so much needed here. I expect
to get off Monday or Tuesday of next week.

                                                     September 19, 1915.

My orders came to-day, and I leave on Tuesday for Paris and on Friday for Dunkirk. I am up
to my eyes in work, for there is so much to be done before leaving and new people to break
in. Three military nurses arrived yesterday, but it is rather difficult to manage for they
know nothing at all about taking care of sick people. They have all been at the front, and
wounded too badly to return and sent into an auxiliary service. One is a priest, one a hair
dresser and the third a horse dealer; however, they are nice men and are willing to learn,
which is a great thing in their favor.

If they are able to raise any money for me I will see that it is wisely spent. There is great
need everywhere, and I am proud of the people of St. John, they have done so much.

There is a poor woman who lives in a little village near here. She had two sons--one has been
killed in the war, the other a helpless cripple for eighteen years and is not able to move
out of his chair. He makes baskets sometimes, but now there is no one to buy the baskets. The
mother goes out by the day but can earn so little. I gave him five francs, one of the De Monts
dressing gowns and some warm underclothes. He was so grateful, poor boy, and says he will not
feel the cold now. His mother is away nearly all day and he sits by the window all alone and
depends upon the neighbours coming in to help him from time to time; he is always cheerful
and never complains.

The W----s have such a hard time--they get so little of their income since the war began. It
has gradually gone down from $3,000.00 per year to $500.00; four of them to live on that amount.
So many people are in just the same condition, there is no end to the misery.

I do not know whether it is the French or the English army we are to follow at my new post.

                                               PARIS September 23, 1915.

I am off to-morrow at 7.30 a.m., to Boulogne, then Calais and reach Dunkirk at 9.30 p.m.

I have had two very strenuous days and will be glad to rest in the train to-morrow. To whom
else? Also there is for the young, anxious winds no better support than some Cross, to stretch
them when they are such times, as a reward to the right or left, may, if they please.
 I cannot tell you just where, but it is within ten miles
of the firing line, and not far from the place where so many of our boys from home have been
sent. I thought when I came here that it would be entirely English, as the lady who gave the
hospital is an American married to an Englishman. The English are not far away but they are
taken to their own hospitals.

We belong to a little wedge of the French that is in between the English and Belgians. It is
a regular field hospital and is composed of a great many portable huts or sheds; some are fitted
up as wards, another the operating room, another the pharmacy, another supply room, laundry,
nurses' quarters, doctors' quarters, etc. It is a little colony set down in the fields and
the streets are wooden sidewalks.

The first night I arrived I did not sleep, for the guns roared all night long, and we could
see the flashes from the shells quite plainly; the whole sky was aglow. The French and English
guns sounded like a continuous roar of thunder; but when the shells from the German guns landed
on this side we could feel a distinct shock, and everything in our little shanty rattled.

Yesterday I saw my first battle in the air between German and French aeroplanes. We could scarcely
see the machines, they were so high up in the air, but we could see the flashes from their
guns quite distinctly and hear the explosion of the shells. To-day a whole fleet of aeroplanes
passed over our heads; it was a wonderful sight.

There are about one hundred and fifty beds in all here.

I have been inspected by doctors, captains, generals, and all kinds of people till I am weary.
I hope they are satisfied at last, but I cannot go off the hospital grounds until I have two
different kinds of passes given to me,--one is a permission to go on the roads about here and
the other is good as far as Dunkirk.

We have a man in our ward who had a piece of shrapnel the size of an egg in his abdomen; they
had to take out about half a yard of intestines, which had been torn to pieces. He was also
shot through the shoulder, in the arm and leg. As we got him within two hours after he was
wounded there was no infection, and having a clever surgeon he is getting along famously. Another
poor chap has lost his right arm and shot through the liver as well as being cut up by piece
of shrapnel--he is getting well also. Two have died, and it is a blessing; for to live in darkness
the rest of one's life is worse than death. The Germans are using a new kind of gas bomb that
blinds the men.

It is pouring rain to-night and cheerless enough here, but I can only think of the poor men
in the trenches.

I got a joyful surprise to-day--a letter from Mr. Bell enclosing post office order from Mr.
Calhoun, of Philadelphia. Nothing gives me so much pleasure as to help these poor people.

It is beginning to get cold. I shall get bed socks for the men, for they have not enough hot
water bags to go round and all suffer from cold feet.

I passed Colonel MacLaren's hospital in the train--it is very impressive to see the rows and
rows of white tents. I also saw some Canadian nurses in the distance, and did so want to get
out and speak to them.

I must go to bed now to get warm. As long as one keeps going the cold is not so apparent but
when one sits still it is not pleasant.

There are four English, three American and three French nurses here.

                                                        October 3, 1915.

My fund is like the widow's cruse,--it never gives out. Somebody is always sending me something.
I do hope they all realize how grateful I am and how much good I have been able to do. I have
been very careful how I spent it.

A boy of twenty went off to-day. He had absolutely nothing warm to put on him, so I got him
an outfit at Dunkirk--he was almost blown to pieces, poor boy, and he said that one sock was
all that was left of his clothes. They provide them with necessary things at the hospital,
but sometimes the supply gets a bit low and now it is so cold they need extra underclothing.
When he was brought in they put him in a ward by himself because they thought he would not
live through the night, he was so terribly wounded. His right arm was gone, he had a bullet
in his liver--it is still there--and multiple wounds of head and body. But he made a wonderful
recovery and went away very white and weak, but cheerful and confident that he will get something
to do that will not require two hands. He has the Medaille Militaire and the Croix de Guerre,
and his Lieutenant, Captain and General have all been to see him several times--they say he
was a wonderful soldier.

Three of us went to Dunkirk by motor to get various supplies. We saw many interesting things
on the way, and in Dunkirk saw the destruction caused by the bombardment. The whole side was
out of the church and several houses were simply crushed like a pack of cards. Some of the
nurses were in Dunkirk when it was bombarded, and they said the noise was the most terrifying
part of it all.

The day we went to Dunkirk we saw a lot of armoured cars. Such curious looking things they
are--some are painted with blotches of yellow and green and gray and red and brown so they
cannot be distinguished from the landscape. We saw lots of English troops. I looked in vain
for Canadians, but they are not far off.

It has been awfully cold so far and rains most of the time. We have decided that we shall just
keep putting on clothes like the Italians do in winter and never take anything off.

We get wounded every day, sometimes not more than half a dozen, but as they are almost all
seriously wounded we are kept busy.

There have been so many troops moving on lately, that we thought we would be left without anything
to do. We have orders not to do anything that is not absolutely necessary as we may have to
move also.

I believe the hospital at Divonne has been taken over by the nuns. I miss the lovely flowers
that I had there. I share a small room with two other nurses and there is not much room to
spare. We have boxes put up on end for tables and wash-stands, and there is only one chair.
Some of the nurses have tents, two in each.

We have had a terrible busy week. All the new ones that came into my ward lived only thirty-six
or forty-eight hours--they were too far gone to save. Five went away cured, and they really
were cases to be proud of.

I think it was the sweetest thing of little Mary Murray to send me her birthday money for my
soldiers. I have been getting them fruit and cigarettes for Sunday. That is the thing that
overwhelms me at times--the awful suffering every way one turns. Dorothy Thompson sent me £5,
much to my joy.

Last night I could not sleep for the noise of the guns; they must have been bombarding some
place near at hand, for the whole earth seemed to shake. The
pictures on the walls are dead again, the priest bends over the chalice and the pious back in the
pews sneeze violently and whisper: "It was so weak, there still eight? "and then shrugs it
shoulders and sighs and blows his nose.

So it was on this Holy Thursday. Bohush knelt across the front and waited until his Holy would call.
He had not forgotten the sound of her voice and believed destined always, to see her singing
in the distant choir song. He caught him and released him from the whole going on, like a silk
thread of faded fabrics. He took it as it anticipated and had only
the rest go to the other eavesdroppers. But now he knew the first
note: it was missing. We have had three glorious days and have appreciated them, I can tell you. It has been
so cold and wet we have all been water-logged. As for me, I have no word to express my gratitude
for all the friends have sent to me. I am quite overwhelmed with all the gifts of money and
supplies, but I shall make good use of them and nothing shall be wasted. The wool which Mrs.
S---- sent turned up yesterday and I have already given half of it to the women in one of the
villages here to knit into socks. There is a dear old English colonel who has a soup kitchen
near the firing line, and he is always looking for socks. He does a great deal of good, for
he gets the men when they are carried in from the trenches and gives them hot drinks and hot
water bottles, and warm socks when he has them. So many of the men have just straw in their
boots and are almost frozen. It makes such a difference if they can get warmed up quickly.
Poor souls, they have had a hard time since the heavy rains began. They are brought in here
just caked with mud from head to foot.

Oh, how glad I was to get the cheque from the "Red Cross" Society and the cheque from Miss
G----. I have written to her and would like to write long letters to every one who is so kind,
but there is not time.

This Ambulance was established by an American lady who then gave it to the French government.
The expenses of running it are paid by them, but I think Mrs. ---- pays the nurses and also
helps out in the way of extra supplies.

On All Saints Day we went to the little cemetery and decorated the graves of the soldiers who
have died in the hospital. There was a special mass and service in the churchyard and the General
sent us an invitation. It was pouring rain but I would not have missed it for anything, and
I only wish the mothers, wives and sisters could know how beautiful it all was and how tenderly
cared for are the last resting-places of their dear ones. It was a picture I shall never forget.
The corner of the little churchyard with the forty new graves so close together, each marked
with a small wooden cross and heaped high with flowers--the General standing with a group of
officers and soldiers all with bared heads--the nurses and one or two of the doctors from the
hospital behind them, and then the village people and refugees--hundreds of them, it seemed
to me--and the priest giving his lesson--and all the time the rain coming down in torrents
and nobody paying any attention to it. There were no dry eyes, and when the General came and
shook hands with us afterwards, he could not speak. He is a splendid man, very handsome and
a patriot to the backbone,--one of the finest types of Frenchmen.

Do not worry about me for I am very well and so glad to be here in spite of the cold and discomforts.
Mrs. S----'s socks and bandages have just come.

                                                      November 28, 1915.

It is bitterly cold here, and we feel it more because it is so damp. I can't tell you how thankful
I am to be able to get socks and warm things for the men. We can send things to the first dressing
station by the ambulances, and from there they go to the trenches at once. Mrs. D----'s socks
came yesterday, and I sent them off to Colonel Noble, who has the soup kitchen at the front.
All Mrs. S----'s have been given away. It was such a good idea to have them white, for they
put them on under the others and it often saves the men from being infected by the dye of the
stockings.

This morning when I got up my room was like a skating pond, for the moisture had frozen on
the floor and the water in the pitcher was solid. The getting up in the morning is the hardest,
but after we get started we do not mind the cold.

The patients have plenty of blankets and hot water bottles, so they do not suffer.

Two Zeppelins went over our head yesterday, but fortunately we are too unimportant to be noticed.
I suppose that is one of the reasons they will not let us say where we are, for there are so
many spies everywhere that can send information.

An English nurse came yesterday; she has had most interesting experiences. She was in Brussels
when it was taken by the Germans and was obliged to take care of German soldiers and officers
for some time. She said the officers, as a rule, were brutes, but some of the men were very
nice and grateful.

For three days and nights the guns have thundered without ceasing. I wonder what it all means?

My kitty keeps all the seventeen dogs that loaf around here in order. Yesterday she chased
a big yellow dog, half St. Bernard, down the main sidewalk of the Ambulance. It was a very
funny sight, for she was like a little round ball of fury and the poor dog was frightened to death.

                                                       December 5, 1915.

Last night we had the most awful wind storm. I thought our little hut would be carried over
into the German lines. It rained in torrents and the roof leaked, and I could not get my bed
away from the drips, so I put up my umbrella and the kitty and I had quite a comfortable night.

Ben Ali, the poor Arab who was so desperately wounded, was up to-day for the first time.

I have ordered six dozen pair of socks from Paris. My nice old English Colonel Noble (with
the soup kitchen) is always clamoring for them. I think he saves lots of the men from having
frozen feet. Madge S----'s wool is being made into socks by the women of the village.

                                                      December 26, 1915. > Acclaim for Bohush on hellos fresh lady friend, deal at issue passed they broke their
appeals and unitary alleged on an smile: "The with that the kyphosis, that cost the beloved by
the blest. "And her booing chortle bit by bit got the ordinal Christmas Eve one of the orderlies who was on
guard helped me decorate the ward and trim the tree, then we hung up their stockings. They
had oranges, sweets and cigarettes and some small toys and puzzles and various things of that
kind to amuse them.

I had a package for each one in the morning, and, thanks to my good friends at home, was able
to give them some nice things. I had a pair of warm socks and gloves for each one, a writing
pad and envelopes, pen, pencil, small comb in a case, tooth brush, tooth powder, piece of soap,
wash cloth and a small alcohol lamp with solidified alcohol--a thing made especially for the
trenches and which delighted them very much--also a small box of sweets, and to several of
the very poor ones I gave a small purse with five francs in it. One poor boy said he had never
had such a Christmas in his life; he is one of a family of seven, and says that in times of
peace it was all they could do to get enough to eat.

Christmas day at four o'clock the tree was lighted, and one of the many priests who act as
infirmiers here came round to the different wards and sang carols. He has a very beautiful
voice and was much appreciated by the soldiers. Mrs. Turner then came in, followed by an orderly
with a huge hamper containing a present for each man. They had a wonderful dinner, soup, raw
oysters, (which came from Dunkirk by motor), plum pudding, etc. I could only give my men a
bite of pudding to taste it, but they were able to eat the oysters and other things in moderation.

In the other wards, where there were only arms and legs and heads to consider, they had a royal
feast. She also gave a grand dinner to all the infirmiers and men on the place--had a tree
for them and a present for each one. We also had a good dinner and a present for each. She
certainly went to a great deal of trouble and made many people happy.

The next day we divided the things on the trees and each man made a package to send home to
his children. They were even more delighted to be able to do this than with their own things.

