There was just the least possible inflection of kindness in her voice, and this ruffian's heart
leaped to meet it, while the tears came to his eyes. He dashed them savagely away, and took
a letter from his breast-pocket.

"That's all we found on him, miss," said he, "that an' a couple o' cigars. He hadn't no watch,
no blunt, no latch-key, no nothink. I kep' this here careful to bring it you. Bless ye, I can
read, I can, well, but I've not read that there. I couldn't even smoke of his cigars. No, I
guv 'em to a pal. This here job warn't done for money, miss! It were done for--for--well--for you!"

She took the letter with as little emotion as if it had been an ordinary tradesman's bill for
a few shillings; yet had she once pawned a good many hundred pounds' worth of diamonds only
on the chance of recovering its contents.

"At least, I must pay you for the shawl," said she, pulling the notes out of their case.

"For the shawl, miss? Yes," answered Jim. "Ten pounds will buy that, an' leave a fair profit
for my pal as owns it. Not a shilling more, miss--no--no. D'ye mind the first time as ever
I see you? D'ye mind what I said then? There's one chap, miss, in this world, as belongs of
you, body and soul. He's a poor chap, he is, and a rough chap, but he asks no better than to
sarve of you, be the job what it may--ay, if he swings for it! Now it's out!"

Over her pale haughty face swept a flash of mingled triumph, malice, and even amusement, while
she listened to this desperate man's avowal of fidelity and belief. But she only vouchsafed
him a cold condescending smile, observing, as she selected a ten-pound note--

"Is there nothing I can do to mark my satisfaction and approval?"

He fidgeted, glanced at the note-case, and began packing up his goods.

"If you're pleased, miss, that's enough. But if so be as you could do without that there empty
bit of silk, and spare it me for a keepsake--well, miss, I'd never part with it--no, not if
the rope was rove, and the nightcap drawed over my blessed face!"

She put the empty note-case in his hand.

"You're a fool," she said, ringing the bell for a servant to show him out; "but you're a stanch
one, and I wish there were more like you." 

I have never heard that any remnant of this curious superstition can now be traced in the neighbourhood,
but persons long acquainted with the spot have told me that the state of the stream was formerly
looked upon as a good index of the probable future price of corn. It would be a rum world then, blessed if it wouldn't! And now it will be a whole
week afore I shall see her again!"

Dorothea, clinging to the area railings, even in the imminence of discovery had not the heart
to leave them as he went out. Stupefied, bewildered, benumbed, she could scarcely believe in
the reality of the scene she had witnessed. She felt it explained much that had lately puzzled
her exceedingly; but at present she was unequal to the task of arranging her ideas so as to
understand the mystery that enveloped her.

Gradually the thunderstorm rolled away, the rain cleared off, the moon shone out, and Dorothea
reached her squalid home, drenched, cold, weary, and sick at heart.

CHAPTER XVII

"WANTED--A LADY"

We must go back a few days to watch with Dick Stanmore through the sad sorrowing hours that
succeeded his step-mother's ball. I trust I have not so described this gentleman as to leave
an impression that he was what young ladies call a romantic person. Romance, like port wine,
after-dinner slumbers, flannel next the skin, and such self-indulgences, should be reserved
as a luxury for after-life; under no circumstances must it be permitted to impair the efficiency
of manhood in its prime. Dick Stanmore took his punishment with true British pluck and pertinacity.
It was a "facer." As it could not possibly be returned, his instincts prompted him to "grin
and bear it." He had sustained a severe fall. His first impulse was to get up again. None the
less did nerves thrill and brain spin with the force and agony of the blow. Perhaps the very
nature that most resists, suffers also the most severely from such shocks, as a granite wall
cracks and splinters to the round shot, while an earth-work accepts that rushing missile with
a stolid harmless thud.

Dick's composition was at least not earthy enough to let him go to bed after this recent downfall
of his hopes. Restless, hurt, sorrowful, angry with himself, not her--for his nature could
be gallantly loyal under defeat--sleep was as impossible as any other occupation requiring
quietude and self-control. No. The only thing to be done was to smoke, of course! and then
to pack up everything he could lay hands on, without delay, so as to leave London that very
morning, for any part of England, Europe, or the habitable world. All places would be alike
to him now, only the farther from Belgrave Square the better. Therefore it was, perhaps, that,
after shamming to breakfast, and enduring considerable pain in a state of enforced inactivity,
while his servant completed their travelling arrangements, he drove through this very Square,
though it lay by no means in a direct line for the railway station to which he was bound. Those
who believe in ghosts affirm that a disembodied spirit haunts the place it best loved on earth;
and what are we but the ghosts of our former selves, when all that constituted the pith and
colouring and vitality of our lives has passed away? Ah! Lady Macbeth's are not the only white
hands from which that cruel stain can never be removed. There are soft eyes and sweet smiles
and gentle whispers, enough in the world guilty of moral manslaughter (I believe the culprits
themselves call it "justifiable homicide"), not entirely divested of that malice prepense which
constitutes the crime of murder! Happy the victims in whom life is not completely extinguished,
who recover their feet, bind up their wounds, and undeterred by a ghastly experience, hazard
in more encounters a fresh assassination of the heart. Such fortitude would have afforded a
remedy to Dick Stanmore. "Wanted--a lady!" should have been the motto emblazoned on his banner
if ever he turned back into the battle once more. Homoeopathy, no doubt, is the treatment for
a malady like that which prostrated this hapless sufferer,--homoeopathy, at first distrusted,
ridiculed, accepted only under protest, and in accordance with the force of circumstances,
the exigences of the position; gradually found to soothe, to revive, to ameliorate, till at
last it effects a perfect and triumphant cure, nay, even shows itself powerful enough to produce
a second attack of the same nature, fierce and virulent as the first. But, meanwhile, Dick
Stanmore followed the ghost's example, and drove sadly through Belgrave Square, as he told
himself, for the last--last time! Had he been an hour later, just one hour, he might have taken
away with him a subject for considerable speculation, during his proposed travels in search
of distraction. This is what he would have seen.

A good-looking bad-looking man, with dark eyes and hair, sweeping a crossing very inefficiently,
while he watched the adjacent street with an air of eager anxiety, foreign to an occupation
which indeed seems to demand unusual philosophy and composure of mind. Presently, Maud Bruce,
tripping daintily across the path he had swept clean, let herself into the Square gardens,
dropping her glove in the muddy street as she took a pass-key from her pocket. The crossing-sweeper
pounced at it like a hawk, stuck his broom against a lamp-post, and hurried round to the other
side of the Square.

Here Maud appeared at the gate, while "Gentleman Jim," for it was none other, returned her
glove without a word through the iron bars.

"I hardly expected you so soon," said Miss Bruce. "My letter could only have been posted at
five this morning."

"You might ha' made sure I'd come that instant, miss," answered Jim, his face brightening with
excitement and delight. "I knowed who 'twas from, well enough, though 'twas but a line as a
man might say. I ain't had it an hour, an' here I am, ready and willing for your job, be it
what it may!"

"You're a bold fellow, I know," said Maud, "but it's a desperate undertaking. If you don't
like it, say so."

Jim swore a horrible oath, and then drew his hand across his lips as though to wipe away its
traces.

"Look'ee here, miss," he muttered in a hoarse thick whisper. "If you says to me, Jim, says
you, go and rob that there church--see, now, I'd have the wards of the big key in wax, ah!
this weary arternoon. If you says to me, says you, Jim, go and cut that there parson's throat,
I've got a old knife in my pocket as I wouldn't want to sharpen afore the job was done, and
the parson too, for good an' all!"

There was a peculiar grace in the setting on of Maud's head, especially in the firm lines of
her mouth and chin. Though she looked even paler than usual, her rare beauty, always somewhat
resolute and defiant in character, never showed to greater advantage than now.

"I won't speak of reward to you," she said, very clearly and distinctly, "though you shall
name your own price, and be paid at your own time. Listen--I have an enemy--a bitter enemy
who threatened me--actually dared to threaten me last night--who would hesitate at nothing
to do me an injury."

"Blast him!" muttered Jim ferociously. "Leave 'un to me, miss, leave 'un to me!"

She took no heed of his interruption.

"That enemy," she continued, "must be got out of my way."

The sweat stood on her listener's brow.

"I understand you, miss," he gasped in a broken voice. "It shall be done."

Over the face this ruffian thought too beautiful to be mortal came a stern proud smile.

"I forbid that" she replied, "forbid it distinctly, and I will be obeyed to the very letter.
If you were to kill this man, I should be the first to hand you over to justice. Listen. He
must be kept quiet and out of the way for something less than three weeks. After that, he can
harm me no more. I bear him no grudge, I wish him no evil; but he must be taken away this very
afternoon. Every hour might make it too late. Can you do this?"

Jim pondered. He was an experienced criminal. A man with certain qualities which, in the honest
paths of life, might have made him successful, even remarkable. In a few seconds he had run
over his chances, his resources, his risk of detection, all the pros and cons of the undertaking.
He looked cheerfully in her face.

"I can, miss," said he confidently. "I don't go for to say as it's a job to be done right off,
like easy shavin', or taking a dozen of hiseters. But it's to be worked. I'll engage for that,
and I'm the chap as can work it. You couldn't give me no longer than to-day, could ye now?"

"If it's not done at once, you must let it alone," was the answer.

"Now that's business," replied Jim, growing cooler and more self-possessed as he reviewed the
difficulties of his enterprise. "The party being in town, miss, o' course. You may depend on
my makin' of him safe before nine o'clock to-night. Shall I trouble you for the name and address,
or will you give me a description in full, that will do as well?"

"You have seen him," she observed quietly. "On this very spot where I am standing now. I walked
with him in these gardens the first morning you swept our crossing. A gentleman in a frock
coat with a bunch of flowers at his buttonhole. Do you remember?"

Did he remember? Why the man's figure, features, every detail of his dress was photographed
on Jim's heart.

"No need to tell me his name, miss," was the answer. "I knows him as well as I knows these
here old shoes o' mine. I've had my eye on him ever since. I can tell you when he goes out,
when he comes in, where he takes his meals. I could lay my hand on him in any part of this
here town at two hours' notice. Make yourself easy, miss. Your job's as good as done, and some
day you'll see me again, miss, won't you? NOCAB.

Armorials.--Sable, a fesse or, in chief two fleurs de lis or, in base a hind courant argent. E.D.B.
will feel grateful to any gentlemen who will kindly inform him of the name of the family to
which the above coat belonged.

They were quartered by Richard or Roger Barow, of Wynthorpe, in Lincolnshire
(Harl.

MS. 1552. 42 b), who died in 1505.
E.D.B.

Artephius, the Chemical Philosopher.--What is known of the
chemical philosopher Artephius? Supposin' as he won't be 'ticed, miss; there's
only one way, then!"

For a moment she felt a keen stab of compunction, but, remembering the stake she ventured,
nerved herself to resist the pang. This was no time for child's play, for a morbid sensitiveness,
for weak indulgence of the feelings.

"Tell him you have a message from me, from Miss Bruce," she replied firmly. "It will lead him
anywhere."

Jim looked as if he would rather set about the business in any other way; nevertheless, he
was keenly alive to the efficiency of so tempting a bait, reflecting at the same time with
a kind of awe on Mr. Ryfe's temerity in affronting such a character as this.

Another hurried sentence. A light in Jim's eyes like that with which a dog receives directions
from its master, a gesture such as dismisses the same dog imperiously to its kennel, and Miss
Bruce walked quietly home to her music and her embroidery, while the crossing-sweeper, recovering
his broom, hurried off in another direction to commence operations against the unsuspecting
Tom Ryfe.

That gentleman's feelings, as he sat in his uncle's office the morning after Mrs. Stanmore's
ball, were of no enviable nature. Malice, hatred, and all uncharitableness might indeed sufficiently
describe the frame of mind in which he went about his daily business, unfortunately on the
present occasion an affair of such mere routine as in no way to distract his attention from
his sorrows and his wrongs.

"She has dared me," thought he, poring over a deed he knew by heart, and of which his eye only
took in the form and outward semblance, "challenged me to do my worst, and herself declared
it is to be war to the knife. O Maud, Maud, how could you, how could you! Was it not enough
to have wound yourself round my heart, to have identified yourself with my hopes, my ambition,
my manhood, my very existence, and then with one turn of your hand to have destroyed them,
each and all, but you must add insult to injury--must scorn and trample on me as well? Some
men may stand this sort of treatment--I won't. I have a pull over you. Ah! I'm not such a fool,
after all, perhaps, as you thought. I have it, and hang me, but I'll make use of it! You have
blasted my life, and thought it good fun, no doubt. I'll see if I can't give tit-for-tat and
spoil your little game, my haughty lady, with your white face and your cursed high-handed airs.
Yet, how I loved them--how I loved them! Must I never see a woman again without that queenly
beauty coming between me and my share of happiness? What right had you to destroy my whole
future? And I would have been so different if you had cared for me; I might have made a better
gentleman than any of them. As for that emptyheaded cousin (to be sure you've thrown him over,
too, and I hope he feels it to his marrow), and that swaggering lord, can they care for you
like I did? Would they have worked as hard to please you, and sat up night after night, as
I have done, poring over papers to see you righted? and why am I to be sacrificed to such men
as these? I won't be sacrificed; no, by heavens! I've done my best for you hitherto, Miss Bruce,
and you've dared me now to do my worst. I shall rather astonish you, I think, when you learn
what that worst is. Curse you; I'll have no mercy! If I am to suffer, I'll take care not to
suffer meekly and alone. It's my turn now, my lady, as, before twelve hours are out, you shall
know to your cost."

Mr. Ryfe, you see, was sadly wanting in that first element of chivalry which establishes the
maxim that "a woman can do no wrong." This principle, when acted up to in its fullest sense,
is convenient, no doubt, and beneficial to us all. It involves free trade on the broadest basis,
sweeping away much of the selfishness and morbid sentimentality that constitute the superstition
we call Love. She has a perfect right to change her mind, bless her! why shouldn't she? And
so, no doubt, have you! Ring for fresh cards, cut again for partners, and so sit merrily down
to another rubber. Thus, too, you will learn to play the game cautiously and with counters,
saving both your temper and your gold. It may be you will miss the excitement of real gambling,
finding the pastime so wearisome that you are fain to leave off and go to bed. Whatever you
do, retire with a good grace. It is but a choice of evils. Perhaps you had better be bored
than miserable, and, if less exciting, it is surely less painful to stifle listless yawns,
than to crush down the cry of a wilful wounded heart.

Mr. Ryfe, however, I consider perfectly inexcusable in the course he chose to adopt. Self-sacrifice
is, of all others, the quality by which, in questions of feeling, the true gold is to be distinguished
from the false. But Tom had no idea of such generous immolation--not he.

Hour after hour, poring over the deeds of which he never read a line, he raged and chafed and
came to a determination at last.

He had thought of writing to Lord Bearwarden, in his own name, warning him as a true friend
of the lady's antecedents who was about to become his lordship's bride, enclosing at the same
time a copy of her promise to himself; for, with professional caution, he reflected that the
original had better not pass out of his hands. Then, he argued, if his lordship could only
see with his own eyes the treasured lines in her well-known handwriting, by which Miss Bruce
had bound herself in all honour to the lawyer's clerk, that nobleman must readily, and of necessity,
hold himself absolved from any engagement he might have contracted with her, and perceive at
once the folly and impropriety of making such a woman his wife. Yes, Lord Bearwarden should
read the letter itself; he would obtain a personal interview that very evening, when the latter
dressed for dinner. There would thus be no necessity for trusting the important document out
of his own possession, while at the same time he could himself adopt a tone of candour and
high feeling, calculated to make a strong impression on such a true gentleman as his friend.

He took Miss Bruce's promise from the safe in which he kept it locked up, and hid it carefully
in his breast-pocket. Then, looking at his watch, and finding it was time to leave his office
for the West-End, heaped his papers together, bundled them into the safe, and prepared to depart.

Walking moodily down-stairs he was waylaid by Dorothea, who, sluicing the steps with dirty
water under pretence of cleaning them, thus held, as it were, the key of the position, and
so had him at command. It surprised him not a little that she should desist from her occupation
to request an interview.

"Can I speak to you for a moment, Mr. Thomas?" said she. "It's private, and it's particular."

The amount of pressure put on Dorothea ere she consented to the job now in hand it is not for
me to estimate. Her Jim was a man of unscrupulous habits and desperate resources. It is probable
that she had been subjected to the influences of affection, sentiment, and intimidation, perhaps
even physical force. I cannot tell, my business is only with results.

There was no escaping, even had Mr. Ryfe been so inclined, for Dorothea's person, pail, and
scrubbing-brushes defended the whole width of the staircase.

"It's strange, Mr. Thomas," she continued, pushing the hair off her face. "Lor! I was that
frightened and that surprised, as you might have 'eard my 'eart beatin' like carpets. Who she
may be, an' wot she may be, I know no more than the dead. But her words was these--I'm tellin'
you her werry words--If you can make sure of seeing Mr. Ryfe, says she,--that's you, Mr. Thomas,--any
time afore to-night, says she, tell him, as I must have a word with him in priwate atween him
and me this werry evening, or it would have been better for both of us, poor things, says she,
if we'd 'a never been born!"

Tom Ryfe stared.

"What do you mean?" he said. "Am I to understand that the--the lady who spoke to you was desirous
of an interview with me here in chambers, or where?"

"An' a born lady she is an' were!" answered Dorothea, incoherent, and therefore in the acute
lawyer's opinion more likely to be telling the truth. "A beautiful lady, too--tall and pale,
'aughty and 'andsome--(Tom started)--dressed in 'alf-mourning, with a black-and-white parasol
in her 'and. It's to see you priwate, Mr. Thomas, as she bade me to warn of you. To-night at
height in the Birdcage Walk, without fail, says she, for it's life and death as is the matter,
or marriage, says she, which is sometimes wuss nor both."

Dorothea then removed herself, her pail, and her scrubbing-brushes to one side, as though inviting
him to follow out his assignation without delay.

"I ask yer pardon," said she, "Mr. Thomas, if I done wrong. But the young lady she seemed so
anxious and aggrawated-like. No offence, sir, I 'umbly 'ope, and she guv' me 'alf-a-sovereign."

"And I'll give you another," exclaimed Tom, placing a coin of that value in Dorothea's damp
hot hand. "The Birdcage Walk, at eight. And it's past six now. Thank you, Dorothea. I've no
doubt it's all right. I'll start at once."

Leaving Gray's Inn, the warm tears filled his eyes to think he had so misjudged her. Evidently
she was in some difficulty, some complication; she had no opportunity of confiding to him,
and hence her apparent heartlessness, the inconsistency of her conduct which he had been unable
to understand. Obviously she loved him still, and the conviction filled him with rapture, all
the more thrilling and intense for his late misgivings.

He pulled her written promise from his pocket, and kissed it passionately, reading it over
and over again in the fading light. A prayer rose from heart to lip for the woman he loved,
while he looked up to the crimson glories of the western sky. &c. &c. &c.

There were other stanzas, I believe, but these are all I can remember.
My notion is, that the verses in question form part of a collection
of nursery songs and rhymes by Charles Lamb, published many years
ago, but now quite out of print. Rather let us
believe that, true to their heaven-born nature, they are blessings for those who give and those
who receive.

Some two hours later, Tom Ryfe found himself pacing to and fro under the trees in the Birdcage
Walk, with a happier heart, though it beat so fast, than had been within his waistcoat for weeks.

It was getting very dark, and even beneath the gas-lamps it was difficult to distinguish the
figure of man or woman, flitting through the deep shadows cast by trees still thick with their
summer foliage. Tom, peering anxiously into the obscure, could make out nothing but a policeman,
a foot-guardsman with a clothes-basket, and a drunken slattern carrying her baby upside-down.

He was growing anxious. Big Ben's booming tones had already warned him it was a quarter past
eight, when, suddenly, so close to him he could almost touch it, loomed the figure of a woman.

"Miss Bruce," he exclaimed--"Maud--is it you?"

Turning his own body, so as to take advantage of a dim ray from the nearest gaslight, he was
aware that the woman, shorter and stouter than Miss Bruce, had muffled herself in a cloak,
and was closely veiled.

"You have a letter--a message," he continued in a whisper. "It's all right. I'm the party you
expected to meet--here--at eight--under the trees."

"And wot the--are you at with my missus under the trees?" growled a brutal voice over his shoulder,
while Tom felt he was helplessly pinioned by a pair of strong arms from behind, that crushed
and bruised him like iron. Ere he could twist his hands free to show fight, which he meant
to do pretty fiercely, he found himself baffled, blinded, suffocated, by a handkerchief thrust
into his face, while a strong, pungent, yet not altogether unpleasant flavour of ether filled
eyes, mouth, and nostrils, till it permeated to his very lungs. Then with every pulsation of
the blood Big Ben seemed to be striking inside his brain till something gave way with a great
whizz! like the mainspring of a watch, and Tom Ryfe was perfectly quiet and comfortable henceforth.

Five minutes afterwards a belated bricklayer lounging home with his mate observed two persons,
man and woman, supporting between them a limp helpless figure, obviously incapable of sense
or motion. Said the bricklayer, "That's a stiff-'un, Bill, to all appearance."

"Stiff-'un be d----d!" retorted Bill; "he's only jolly drunk. I wish I was too!"

The bricklayer seemed a man of reflection; for half-a-mile or so he held his peace, then, with
a backward nod of the head, to indicate his meaning, observed solemnly--

"I wouldn't take that chap's head-ache when he comes to, no, not to be as jolly drunk as he
is this minnit--I wouldn't!"

CHAPTER XVIII

"THE COMING QUEEN"

  "And whenever she comes she will find me waiting
  To do her homage--my queen--my queen!"

How many an aspiring heart has breathed the high chivalrous sentiment, never before so touchingly
expressed, as in the words of this beautiful song! How many a gallant generous nature has desired
with unspeakable longing to lay its wealth of loyalty and devotion at her feet who is to prove
the coming queen of its affections, the ladye of its love! And for how many is the unwavering
worship, the unfailing faith, the venture of wealth and honour, the risk of life and limb,
right royally rewarded according to its merits and its claim! I am not sure that implicit belief,
unquestioning obedience, are the qualities most esteemed by those illustrious personages on
whom they are lavished; and I think that the rebel who sends in his adhesion on his own terms
is sometimes treated with more courtesy and consideration than the stanch vassal whose fidelity
remains unaffected by coldness, ingratitude, or neglect.

Dick Stanmore, reading in the Morning Post an eloquent account of Viscount Bearwarden's marriage
to Miss Bruce, with the festivities consequent thereon, felt that he had sadly wasted his loyalty,
if indeed this lady were the real sovereign to whom the homage of his heart was due. He began
now to entertain certain misgivings on that score. What if he had over-estimated his own admiration
and the force of her attractions? Perhaps his real queen had not come to him after all. It
might be she was advancing even now in her maiden majesty, as yet unseen, but shedding before
her a soft and mellow radiance, a tender quiver of light and warmth, like that which flushes
the horizon at the break of a summer's day.

