THE CURIOUS REPUBLIC OF GONDOUR AND OTHER WHIMSICAL SKETCHES

By Mark Twain

     NOTE:

     Most of the sketches in this volume were taken from a series
     the author wrote for The Galaxy from May, 1870, to April,
     1871.  The rest appeared in The Buffalo Express.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

     THE CURIOUS REPUBLIC OF GONDOUR
     A MEMORY
     INTRODUCTORY TO "MEMORANDA".
     ABOUT SMELLS
     A COUPLE OF SAD EXPERIENCES
     DAN MURPHY
     THE "TOURNAMENT" IN A.D. 1870
     CURIOUS RELIC FOR SALE
     A REMINISCENCE OF THE BACK SETTLEMENTS
     A ROYAL COMPLIMENT
     THE APPROACHING EPIDEMIC
     THE TONE-IMPARTING COMMITTEE
     OUR PRECIOUS LUNATIC
     THE EUROPEAN WAR
     THE WILD MAN INTERVIEWED
     LAST WORDS OF GREAT MEN

THE CURIOUS REPUBLIC OF GONDOUR

As soon as I had learned to speak the language a little, I became greatly interested in the
people and the system of government.

I found that the nation had at first tried universal suffrage pure and simple, but had thrown
that form aside because the result was not satisfactory. It had seemed to deliver all power
into the hands of the ignorant and non-tax-paying classes; and of a necessity the responsible
offices were filled from these classes also.

A remedy was sought. The people believed they had found it; not in the destruction of universal
suffrage, but in the enlargement of it. To offer to "limit" the suffrage might have made instant
trouble; the offer to "enlarge" it had a pleasant aspect. But of course the newspapers soon
began to suspect; and then out they came! It was found, however, that for once--and for the
first time in the history of the republic--property, character, and intellect were able to
wield a political influence; for once, money, virtue, and intelligence took a vital and a united
interest in a political question; for once these powers went to the "primaries" in strong force;
for once the best men in the nation were put forward as candidates for that parliament whose
business it should be to enlarge the suffrage. The weightiest half of the press quickly joined
forces with the new movement, and left the other half to rail about the proposed "destruction
of the liberties" of the bottom layer of society, the hitherto governing class of the community.
Therefore, learning being more prevalent and more easily acquired than riches, educated men
became a wholesome check upon wealthy men, since they could outvote them. Learning goes usually
with uprightness, broad views, and humanity; so the learned voters, possessing the balance
of power, became the vigilant and efficient protectors of the great lower rank of society.

And now a curious thing developed itself--a sort of emulation, whose object was voting power!
Whereas formerly a man was honored only according to the amount of money he possessed, his
grandeur was measured now by the number of votes he wielded. A man with only one vote was conspicuously
respectful to his neighbor who possessed three. And if he was a man above the common-place,
he was as conspicuously energetic in his determination to acquire three for himself. This spirit
of emulation invaded all ranks. Votes based upon capital were commonly called "mortal" votes,
because they could be lost; those based upon learning were called "immortal," because they
were permanent, and because of their customarily imperishable character they were naturally
more valued than the other sort. I say "customarily" for the reason that these votes were not
absolutely imperishable, since insanity could suspend them.

Under this system, gambling and speculation almost ceased in the republic. A man honoured as
the possessor of great voting power could not afford to risk the loss of it upon a doubtful chance.

It was curious to observe the manners and customs which the enlargement plan produced. At Munich,
every child found begging is taken to a charitable establishment; the moment he enters his portrait
is given to him, representing him in his rags, and he promises by oath to keep it all his life.

*
* * * *

INFANCY.

[This is one of the gems of the quarto volume of poetry recently published by the author of the
"Omnipresence of the Deity;" but in our next we intend stringing together a few of the resplendent
beauties which illumine almost every page.]

On yonder mead, that like a windless lake Shines in the glow of heaven, a cherub boy Is bounding, playful
as a breeze new-born, Light as the beam that dances by his side.

Phantom of beauty! with his trepid locks Gleaming like water-wreaths,--a flower of life, To
whom the fairy world is fresh, the sky A glory, and the earth one huge delight! Joy shaped
his brow, and Pleasure rolls his eye, While Innocence, from out the
budding lip Darts her young smiles along his rounded cheek.

Grief hath not dimm'd the brightness of his form, Love and Affection
o'er him spread their wings, And Nature, like a nurse, attends him
with Her sweetest looks.

The humming bee will bound From out the flower, nor sting his baby hand; The birds sing to him
from the sunny tree; And suppliantly the fierce-eyed mastiff fawn Beneath his feet, to court the
playful touch.

To rise all rosy from the arms of sleep, And, like the sky-bird, hail
the bright-cheek'd morn With gleeful song, then o'er the bladed mead
To chase the blue-wing'd butterfly, or play With curly streams; or,
led by watchful Love, To hear the chorus of the trooping waves, When
the young breezes laugh them into life!

Or listen to the mimic ocean roar Within the womb of spiry sea-shell wove,-- From sight and
sound to catch intense delight, And infant gladness from each happy face,-- These are the guileless
duties of the day: And when at length reposeful Evening comes, Joy-worn he nestles in the welcome
couch, With kisses warm upon his cheek, to dream Of heaven, till morning wakes him to the world.

The
scene hath changed into a curtain'd room, Where mournful glimmers of the mellow sun Lie dreaming
on the walls! Dim-eyed and sad, And dumb with agony, two parents bend O'er a pale image, in
the coffin laid,-- Their infant once, the laughing, leaping boy,
The paragon and nursling of their souls!

Death touch'd him, and the life-glow fled away, Swift as a gay hour's fancy; fresh and cold As winter's
shadow, with his eye-lids seal'd, Like violet-lips at eve, he lies enrobed An offering to the
grave! but, pure as when It wing'd from heaven, his spirit hath return'd,
To lisp his hallelujahs with the choirs Of sinless babes, imparadised
above.



I felt rather cornered, but made shift to say:

"But these questions cover a good deal more ground than is necessary."

"No matter; if candidates can answer these it is tolerably fair evidence that they can answer
nearly any other question you choose to ask them."

There were some things in Gondour which one could not shut his eyes to. One was, that ignorance
and incompetence had no place in the government. Brains and property managed the state. A candidate
for office must have marked ability, education, and high character, or he stood no sort of
chance of election. If a hod-carrier possessed these, he could succeed; but the mere fact that
he was a hod-carrier could not elect him, as in previous times.

It was now a very great honour to be in the parliament or in office; under the old system such
distinction had only brought suspicion upon a man and made him a helpless mark for newspaper
contempt and scurrility. Officials did not need to steal now, their salaries being vast in
comparison with the pittances paid in the days when parliaments were created by hod-carriers,
who viewed official salaries from a hod-carrying point of view and compelled that view to be
respected by their obsequious servants. Justice was wisely and rigidly administered; for a
judge, after once reaching his place through the specified line of promotions, was a permanency
during good behaviour. He was not obliged to modify his judgments according to the effect they
might have upon the temper of a reigning political party.

The country was mainly governed by a ministry which went out with the administration that created
it. This was also the case with the chiefs of the great departments. Minor officials ascended
to their several positions through well-earned promotions, and not by a jump from gin-mills
or the needy families and friends of members of parliament. Good behaviour measured their terms
of office.

The head of the governments the Grand Caliph, was elected for a term of twenty years. I questioned
the wisdom of this. I was answered that he could do no harm, since the ministry and the parliament
governed the land, and he was liable to impeachment for misconduct. This great office had twice
been ably filled by women, women as aptly fitted for it as some of the sceptred queens of history.
Members of the cabinet, under many administrations, had been women.

I found that the pardoning power was lodged in a court of pardons, consisting of several great
judges. Under the old regime, this important power was vested in a single official, and he
usually took care to have a general jail delivery in time for the next election.

I inquired about public schools. There were plenty of them, and of free colleges too. I inquired
about compulsory education. This was received with a smile, and the remark:

"When a man's child is able to make himself powerful and honoured according to the amount of
education he acquires, don't you suppose that that parent will apply the compulsion himself?
Our free schools and free colleges require no law to fill them."

There was a loving pride of country about this person's way of speaking which annoyed me. I
had long been unused to the sound of it in my own. The Gondour national airs were forever dinning
in my ears; therefore I was glad to leave that country and come back to my dear native land,
where one never hears that sort of music.

A MEMORY

When I say that I never knew my austere father to be enamoured of but one poem in all the long
half century that he lived, persons who knew him will easily believe me; when I say that I
have never composed but one poem in all the long third of a century that I have lived, persons
who know me will be sincerely grateful; and finally, when I say that the poem which I composed
was not the one which my father was enamoured of, persons who may have known us both will not
need to have this truth shot into them with a mountain howitzer before they can receive it. Such
a doctrine, at more leisurable moments, would of course have its precepts to deliver on the embellishment,
generally, of what is near at hand, on the adornment of life, till, in a not impracticable
rule of conduct, one's existence, from day to day, came to be like a well-executed piece of
music; that "perpetual motion" in things (so Marius figured the matter to himself, under the
old Greek imageries) according itself to a kind of cadence or harmony.
 As a general thing I was a backward, cautious, unadventurous boy; but I once jumped
off a two-story table; another time I gave an elephant a "plug" of tobacco and retired without
waiting for an answer; and still another time I pretended to be talking in my sleep, and got
off a portion of a very wretched original conundrum in the hearing of my father. Let us not
pry into the result; it was of no consequence to any one but me.

But the poem I have referred to as attracting my father's attention and achieving his favour
was "Hiawatha."

Presently my father took out of his breast pocket an imposing "Warranty Deed," and fixed his
eyes upon it and dropped into meditation. I knew what it was. A Texan lady and gentleman had
given my half-brother, Orrin Johnson, a handsome property in a town in the North, in gratitude
to him for having saved their lives by an act of brilliant heroism.

By and by my father looked towards me and sighed. Then he said:

"If I had such a son as this poet, here were a subject worthier than the traditions of these
Indians."

"If you please, sir, where?"

"In this deed."

"Yes--in this very deed," said my father, throwing it on the table. "There is more poetry,
more romance, more sublimity, more splendid imagery hidden away in that homely document than
could be found in all the traditions of all the savages that live."

"Indeed, sir? Could I--could I get it out, sir? Could I compose the poem, sir, do you think?"

"You?"

I wilted.

Presently my father's face softened somewhat, and he said:

"Go and try. But mind, curb folly. No poetry at the expense of truth. Keep strictly to the facts."

I said I would, and bowed myself out, and went upstairs.

"Hiawatha" kept droning in my head--and so did my father's remarks about the sublimity and
romance hidden in my subject, and also his injunction to beware of wasteful and exuberant fancy.
I noticed, just here, that I had heedlessly brought the deed away with me; now at this moment
came to me one of those rare moods of daring recklessness, such as I referred to a while ago.
Without another thought, and in plain defiance of the fact that I knew my father meant me to
write the romantic story of my half-brother's adventure and subsequent good fortune, I ventured
to heed merely the letter of his remarks and ignore their spirit. I took the stupid "Warranty
Deed" itself and chopped it up into Hiawathian blank verse without altering or leaving out
three words, and without transposing six. The initial mistake most often made is that sufficient
working capital is not called up or provided in the floating of the Company. Promoters trust to
get sufficient from the ground forthwith to ensure further development; the consequence being
that, as nearly 99 per cent of mining properties require a very considerable expenditure of
capital before permanent profits can be relied on, the inexperienced shareholders who started
with inflated hopes of enormous returns and immediate dividends become disheartened and forfeit their
shares by refusing to pay calls, and thus many good properties are sacrificed. In England, the
companies are often floated fully paid-up, but the same initial error of providing too little
money for the equipment and effective working of the mine is usually fallen into.

                    Again, far too many Companies are floated on the report of some self-styled
mining expert, often a man, who, like the schoolmaster of the last
century, has qualified for the position by failing in every other
business he has attempted.

                    These men acquire a few geological
                    and mining phrases, and by more
                    or less skilfully interlarding
                    these with statements of large lodes and big returns they supply
reports seductive enough to float the most worthless properties and
cause the waste of thousands of pounds.

                    But the trouble does not
                    end here.
                    
                    When the Company is to be formed, some lawyer, competent or otherwise,
is instructed to prepare articles of association, rules, etc.; which,
three times out of four, is accomplished by a liberal employment of
scissors and paste.

                    Such rules may, or may not, be
                    suited to the requirements of
                    the organisation. Generally no
                    one troubles much about the matter, though on these rules depends
the future efficient working of the Company, and sometimes its very
existence.

                    
                    
                    Then Directors have to be
                    appointed, and these are seldom selected because of any special knowledge
of mining they may possess, but as a rule simply because they are
large shareholders or prominent men whose names look well in a prospectus.

                    These gentlemen forthwith
                    engage a Secretary, usually on the
                    grounds that he is the person
                    who has tendered lowest, to provide office accommodation and keep
the accounts; and not from any particular knowledge he has of the
true requirements of the position.

                    
                    
                    The way in which some Directors contrive
                    to spend their shareholders' money is humorously commented on by
a Westralian paper which describes a great machinery consignment lately
landed in the neighbourhood of the Boulder Kalgoorlie.

                    
                    
                    "It would seem as if the purchaser
                    had been let loose blindfold in a prehistoric material-founder's
old iron yard, and having bought up the whole stock, had shipped it
off.

                    The feature of the entire antediluvian
                    show is the liberal allowance
                    of material devoted to destruction.
                    Massive kibbles, such as were used in coal mines half a century ago,
are arranged alongside a winding engine, built in the middle of the
century, and evidently designed for hauling the kibbles from a depth
of 1000 feet.

                    Nothing less than horse-power
                    will stir the trucks for underground
                    use, and their design is distinctly
                    of the antique type

                    .
                     I could have waited to see what
became of the other missiles if I had wanted to, but I took no interest in such things.

INTRODUCTORY TO "MEMORANDA"

In taking upon myself the burden of editing a department in THE GALAXY magazine, I have been
actuated by a conviction that I was needed, almost imperatively, in this particular field of
literature. I have long felt that while the magazine literature of the day had much to recommend
it, it yet lacked stability, solidity, weight. It seemed plain to me that too much space was
given to poetry and romance, and not enough to statistics and agriculture. This defect it shall
be my earnest endeavour to remedy. If I succeed, the simple consciousness that I have done
a good deed will be a sufficient reward.**--[**Together with salary.]

In this department of mine the public may always rely upon finding exhaustive statistical tables
concerning the finances of the country, the ratio of births and deaths; the percentage of increase
of population, etc., etc.--in a word, everything in the realm of statistics that can make existence
bright and beautiful.

Also, in my department will always be found elaborate condensations of the Patent Office Reports,
wherein a faithful endeavour will at all times be made to strip the nutritious facts bare of
that effulgence of imagination and sublimity of diction which too often mar the excellence
of those great works.**

     [** N. B.--No other magazine in the country makes a
     specialty of the Patent Office Reports.]

In my department will always be found ample excerpts from those able dissertations upon Political
Economy which I have for a long time been contributing to a great metropolitan journal, and
which, for reasons utterly incomprehensible to me, another party has chosen to usurp the credit
of composing. I shall throw a pathos into the subject of Agriculture that will surprise and
delight the world.

Such is my programme; and I am persuaded that by adhering to it with fidelity I shall succeed
in materially changing the character of this magazine. Therefore I am emboldened to ask the
assistance and encouragement of all whose sympathies are with Progress and Reform.

In the other departments of the magazine will be found poetry, tales, and other frothy trifles,
and to these the reader can turn for relaxation from time to time, and thus guard against overstraining
the powers of his mind.                                                  M. T.

P. S.--1. I have not sold out of the "Buffalo Express," and shall not; neither shall I stop
writing for it. This remark seems necessary in a business point of view. 

A useful cement for stopping leaky places in casks is made as follows: Tallow 25 parts, lard 40 parts,
sifted wood ash 25 parts. Mix together by heating, and apply with a knife blade which has just
been heated.

CANVAS WATER BAGS

Are easily made, and are very handy for carrying small supplies of drinking-water when prospecting
in a dry country; they have the advantage of keeping the water cool in the hottest weather,
by reason on the evaporation. The mouthpiece is made of the neck
of a bottle securely sewn in.

MEDICINE CASE

Medicine is also a matter well worthy of thought. The author's worst enemy would not call him a
mollycoddle, yet he has never travelled in far wilds without carrying something in the way of medicine.
First, then, on this subject, it cannot be too often reiterated that if common Epsom salts were
a guinea an ounce instead of a penny the medicine would be valued accordingly, but it is somewhat
bulky. What I especially recommend, however, is a small pocket-case
of the more commonly known homeopathic remedies, "Mother tinctures,"
which are small, light, and portable, with a small simple book of
instructions. Though generally an allopath in practice, I once saved
my own life, and have certainly helped others by a little knowledge
in diagnosing complaints and having simple homeopathic remedies at
hand to be used in the first stages of what might otherwise have been
serious illnesses.

PRODUCING FIRE

Every one has heard, and most
believe, that fire may be easily produced by rubbing together two
pieces of wood. St. Matthew without stockings or sandals; St. Jerome bare
headed, and with a coarse brown blanket robe dragging the ground; St. Sebastian with scarcely
any raiment at all--these we should see, and should enjoy seeing them; but would we not miss
a spike-tailed coat and kids, and turn away regretfully, and say to parties from the Orient:
"These are well enough, but you ought to see Talmage of Brooklyn." I fear me that in the better
world we shall not even have Dr. Talmage's "good Christian friend."

For if he were sitting under the glory of the Throne, and the keeper of the keys admitted a
Benjamin Franklin or other labouring man, that "friend," with his fine natural powers infinitely
augmented by emancipation from hampering flesh, would detect him with a single sniff, and immediately
take his hat and ask to be excused.

To all outward seeming, the Rev. T. De Witt Talmage is of the same material as that used in
the construction of his early predecessors in the ministry; and yet one feels that there must
be a difference somewhere between him and the Saviour's first disciples. It may be because
here, in the nineteenth century, Dr. T. has had advantages which Paul and Peter and the others
could not and did not have. There was a lack of polish about them, and a looseness of etiquette,
and a want of exclusiveness, which one cannot help noticing.

Is there a choir in Mr. T.'s church? And does it ever occur that they have no better manners
than to sing that hymn which is so suggestive of labourers and mechanics:

          "Son of the Carpenter! receive
          This humble work of mine?"

Now, can it be possible that in a handful of centuries the Christian character has fallen away
from an imposing heroism that scorned even the stake, the cross, and the axe, to a poor little
effeminacy that withers and wilts under an unsavoury smell? We are not prepared to believe
so, the reverend Doctor and his friend to the contrary notwithstanding.

A COUPLE OF SAD EXPERIENCES

