The seizure of the ecclesiastical benefices, the motive which had so strongly tempted the majority
of the Protestant princes to embrace the doctrines of Luther, was not less powerful after than
before the peace; of those whose founders had not held their fiefs immediately of the empire,
such as were not already in their possession would it was evident soon be so.  The whole of
Lower Germany was already secularized; and if it were otherwise in Upper Germany, it was owing
to the vehement resistance of the Catholics, who had there the preponderance.  Each party,
where it was the most powerful, oppressed the adherents of the other; the ecclesiastical princes
in particular, as the most defenceless members of the empire, were incessantly tormented by
the ambition of their Protestant neighbours.  Those who were too weak to repel force by force,
took refuge under the wings of justice; and the complaints of spoliation were heaped up against
the Protestants in the Imperial Chamber, which was ready enough to pursue the accused with
judgments, but found too little support to carry them into effect.  The peace which stipulated
for complete religious toleration for the dignitaries of the Empire, had provided also for
the subject, by enabling him, without interruption, to leave the country in which the exercise
of his religion was prohibited.  But from the wrongs which the violence of a sovereign might
inflict on an obnoxious subject; from the nameless oppressions by which he might harass and
annoy the emigrant; from the artful snares in which subtilty combined with power might enmesh
him--from these, the dead letter of the treaty could afford him no protection.  The Catholic
subject of Protestant princes complained loudly of violations of the religious peace--the Lutherans
still more loudly of the oppression they experienced under their Romanist suzerains.  The rancour
and animosities of theologians infused a poison into every occurrence, however inconsiderable,
and inflamed the minds of the people.  Happy would it have been had this theological hatred
exhausted its zeal upon the common enemy, instead of venting its virus on the adherents of
a kindred faith!

Unanimity amongst the Protestants might, by preserving the balance between the contending parties,
have prolonged the peace; but as if to complete the confusion, all concord was quickly broken.
The doctrines which had been propagated by Zuingli in Zurich, and by Calvin in Geneva, soon
spread to Germany, and divided the Protestants among themselves, with little in unison save
their common hatred to popery.  The Protestants of this date bore but slight resemblance to
those who, fifty years before, drew up the Confession of Augsburg; and the cause of the change
is to be sought in that Confession itself.  It had prescribed a positive boundary to the Protestant
faith, before the newly awakened spirit of inquiry had satisfied itself as to the limits it
ought to set; and the Protestants seemed unwittingly to have thrown away much of the advantage
acquired by their rejection of popery.  Common complaints of the Romish hierarchy, and of ecclesiastical
abuses, and a common disapprobation of its dogmas, formed a sufficient centre of union for
the Protestants; but not content with this, they sought a rallying point in the promulgation
of a new and positive creed, in which they sought to embody the distinctions, the privileges,
and the essence of the church, and to this they referred the convention entered into with their
opponents.  It was as professors of this creed that they had acceded to the treaty; and in
the benefits of this peace the advocates of the confession were alone entitled to participate.
In any case, therefore, the situation of its adherents was embarrassing.  If a blind obedience
were yielded to the dicta of the Confession, a lasting bound would be set to the spirit of
inquiry; if, on the other hand, they dissented from the formulae agreed upon, the point of
union would be lost. Unfortunately both incidents occurred, and the evil results of both were
quickly felt.  One party rigorously adhered to the original symbol of faith, and the other
abandoned it, only to adopt another with equal exclusiveness.

Nothing could have furnished the common enemy a more plausible defence of his cause than this
dissension; no spectacle could have been more gratifying to him than the rancour with which
the Protestants alternately persecuted each other.  Who could condemn the Roman Catholics,
if they laughed at the audacity with which the Reformers had presumed to announce the only
true belief?--if from Protestants they borrowed the weapons against Protestants?--if, in the
midst of this clashing of opinions, they held fast to the authority of their own church, for
which, in part, there spoke an honourable antiquity, and a yet more honourable plurality of
voices.  But this division placed the Protestants in still more serious embarrassments.  As
the covenants of the treaty applied only to the partisans of the Confession, their opponents,
with some reason, called upon them to explain who were to be recognized as the adherents of
that creed.  The Lutherans could not, without offending conscience, include the Calvinists
in their communion, except at the risk of converting a useful friend into a dangerous enemy,
could they exclude them.  This unfortunate difference opened a way for the machinations of
the Jesuits to sow distrust between both parties, and to destroy the unity of their measures.
Fettered by the double fear of their direct adversaries, and of their opponents among themselves,
the Protestants lost for ever the opportunity of placing their church on a perfect equality
with the Catholic.  All these difficulties would have been avoided, and the defection of the
Calvinists would not have prejudiced the common cause, if the point of union had been placed
simply in the abandonment of Romanism, instead of in the Confession of Augsburg.

But however divided on other points, they concurred in this--that the security which had resulted
from equality of power could only be maintained by the preservation of that balance.  In the
meanwhile, the continual reforms of one party, and the opposing measures of the other, kept
both upon the watch, while the interpretation of the religious treaty was a never-ending subject
of dispute.  Each party maintained that every step taken by its opponent was an infraction
of the peace, while of every movement of its own it was asserted that it was essential to its
maintenance.  Yet all the measures of the Catholics did not, as their opponents alleged, proceed
from a spirit of encroachment--many of them were the necessary precautions of self-defence.
The Protestants had shown unequivocally enough what the Romanists might expect if they were
unfortunate enough to become the weaker party.  The greediness of the former for the property
of the church, gave no reason to expect indulgence;--their bitter hatred left no hope of magnanimity
or forbearance.

But the Protestants, likewise, were excusable if they too placed little confidence in the sincerity
of the Roman Catholics.  By the treacherous and inhuman treatment which their brethren in Spain,
France, and the Netherlands, had suffered; by the disgraceful subterfuge of the Romish princes,
who held that the Pope had power to relieve them from the obligation of the most solemn oaths;
and above all, by the detestable maxim, that faith was not to be kept with heretics, the Roman
Church, in the eyes of all honest men, had lost its honour.  No engagement, no oath, however
sacred, from a Roman Catholic, could satisfy a Protestant. What security then could the religious
peace afford, when, throughout Germany, the Jesuits represented it as a measure of mere temporary
convenience, and in Rome itself it was solemnly repudiated.

The General Council, to which reference had been made in the treaty, had already been held
in the city of Trent; but, as might have been foreseen, without accommodating the religious
differences, or taking a single step to effect such accommodation, and even without being attended
by the Protestants.  The latter, indeed, were now solemnly excommunicated by it in the name
of the church, whose representative the Council gave itself out to be.  Could, then, a secular
treaty, extorted moreover by force of arms, afford them adequate protection against the ban
of the church; a treaty, too, based on a condition which the decision of the Council seemed
entirely to abolish?  There was then a show of right for violating the peace, if only the Romanists
possessed the power; and henceforward the Protestants were protected by nothing but the respect
for their formidable array.

Other circumstances combined to augment this distrust.  Spain, on whose support the Romanists
in Germany chiefly relied, was engaged in a bloody conflict with the Flemings.  By it, the
flower of the Spanish troops were drawn to the confines of Germany.  With what ease might they
be introduced within the empire, if a decisive stroke should render their presence necessary?
Germany was at that time a magazine of war for nearly all the powers of Europe.  The religious
war had crowded it with soldiers, whom the peace left destitute; its many independent princes
found it easy to assemble armies, and afterwards, for the sake of gain, or the interests of
party, hire them out to other powers.  With German troops, Philip the Second waged war against
the Netherlands, and with German troops they defended themselves.  Every such levy in Germany
was a subject of alarm to the one party or the other, since it might be intended for their
oppression.  The arrival of an ambassador, an extraordinary legate of the Pope, a conference
of princes, every unusual incident, must, it was thought, be pregnant with destruction to some
party.  Thus, for nearly half a century, stood Germany, her hand upon the sword; every rustle
of a leaf alarmed her.

Ferdinand the First, King of Hungary, and his excellent son, Maximilian the Second, held at
this memorable epoch the reins of government.  With a heart full of sincerity, with a truly
heroic patience, had Ferdinand brought about the religious peace of Augsburg, and afterwards,
in the Council of Trent, laboured assiduously, though vainly, at the ungrateful task of reconciling
the two religions.  Abandoned by his nephew, Philip of Spain, and hard pressed both in Hungary
and Transylvania by the victorious armies of the Turks, it was not likely that this emperor
would entertain the idea of violating the religious peace, and thereby destroying his own painful
work.  The heavy expenses of the perpetually recurring war with Turkey could not be defrayed
by the meagre contributions of his exhausted hereditary dominions.  He stood, therefore, in
need of the assistance of the whole empire; and the religious peace alone preserved in one
body the otherwise divided empire.  Financial necessities made the Protestant as needful to
him as the Romanist, and imposed upon him the obligation of treating both parties with equal
justice, which, amidst so many contradictory claims, was truly a colossal task.  Very far,
however, was the result from answering his expectations.  His indulgence of the Protestants
served only to bring upon his successors a war, which death saved himself the mortification
of witnessing.  Scarcely more fortunate was his son Maximilian, with whom perhaps the pressure
of circumstances was the only obstacle, and a longer life perhaps the only want, to his establishing
the new religion upon the imperial throne.  Necessity had taught the father forbearance towards
the Protestants--necessity and justice dictated the same course to the son. Frances had found a
home in Mrs. Reed's family. Georgia was to go with grandpa, who was
about to remove to Sonoma.

Eliza went to her eldest sister, who was now married and living on the Cosumnes River. Here
she remained until winter. Then, hearing that Mr. Brunner's family and Georgia desired her
return, she became so homesick that her sister consented to her going to them. Fortunately,
they heard of two families who were to move to Sonoma in a very short time, and Eliza was placed
in their charge. This journey was marked with many incidents which seemed marvelous to her child-mind.
The one which impressed itself most forcibly occurred upon their
arrival at the bank of the Sonoma River.

She was told that Jacob would meet her here and take her to grandma's, and was delighted that
her journey was so nearly over. Imagine her disappointment at finding the recent rains had
raised the river until a torrent flowed between her and her anxious friends. For days Jacob
sought the slowly-decreasing flood and called across the rushing stream to cheer the eager
child. Finally, an Indian, who understood Jacob's wish, offered to carry her safely over for
a silver dollar. Never did silver look brighter than that which Jacob held between his fingers, above
his head, that sunny morning, to satisfy the Indian that his price would be paid when he and
his charge reached the other bank.

What a picture this scene presents to the mind! There is the Indian leading his gray pony to the
river's side! He examines him carefully, and puts the blanket on more securely! He waits for the
approaching child. How small she is--not five years old! How she trembles with dread as the
swift current meets her eye! Yet she is anxious to go. One pleading look in the Indian's face,
and she is ready. He mounts; she is placed behind him; her little arms are stretched tightly around
his dusky form! He presses his elbows to his sides to made her more secure, and, by signs, warns
her against loosening her grasp, or she, like the passing branches, will be the water's prey!
They enter the stream. Oh how cold the water is! They reach the middle; her grasp is tighter, and
she holds her breath with fear, for they are drifting with the current past where Jacob stands!
But joy comes at last. They have crossed the river. There stands the pony, shaking the water from
his sides. The Indian takes his dollar with a grunt of satisfaction, and Jacob catches up
the little girl, mounts his horse, and hurries off to grandpa's, where grandma, Leanna, and
Georgia are waiting to give her a warm welcome.

Months passed pleasantly, but gradually changes occurred. The war with Mexico ended, and gold was
discovered. All the men who were able to go, hurried off to the mines to make a fortune. The
little girls gave up their plays, for grandma was not able to do all the work, and grandpa
and Jacob were away. They spent seven years with Mr. and Mrs. Brunner,
They were kindly treated, but their education was neglected. In 1854,
their eldest sister, Elitha, and her husband, came to Sonoma, and
offered them a home and an opportunity of attending school. This kind
offer was accepted. For six years Eliza remained in Sacramento, in
the family of her sister, Elitha.  Germany
was divided into two leagues, which stood in arms arrayed against each other:  between both,
Rodolph, the despised opponent of the one, and the impotent protector of the other, remained
irresolute and useless, equally unable to destroy the former or to command the latter.  What
had the Empire to look for from a prince incapable even of defending his hereditary dominions
against its domestic enemies?  To prevent the utter ruin of the House of Austria, his own family
combined against him; and a powerful party threw itself into the arms of his brother.  Driven
from his hereditary dominions, nothing was now left him to lose but the imperial dignity; and
he was only spared this last disgrace by a timely death.

At this critical moment, when only a supple policy, united with a vigorous arm, could have
maintained the tranquillity of the Empire, its evil genius gave it a Rodolph for Emperor. 
At a more peaceful period the Germanic Union would have managed its own interests, and Rodolph,
like so many others of his rank, might have hidden his deficiencies in a mysterious obscurity.
But the urgent demand for the qualities in which he was most deficient revealed his incapacity.
The position of Germany called for an emperor who, by his known energies, could give weight
to his resolves; and the hereditary dominions of Rodolph, considerable as they were, were at
present in a situation to occasion the greatest embarrassment to the governors.

The Austrian princes, it is true were Roman Catholics, and in addition to that, the supporters
of Popery, but their countries were far from being so.  The reformed opinions had penetrated
even these, and favoured by Ferdinand's necessities and Maximilian's mildness, had met with
a rapid success.  The Austrian provinces exhibited in miniature what Germany did on a larger
scale.  The great nobles and the ritter class or knights were chiefly evangelical, and in the
cities the Protestants had a decided preponderance.  If they succeeded in bringing a few of
their party into the country, they contrived imperceptibly to fill all places of trust and
the magistracy with their own adherents, and to exclude the Catholics.  Against the numerous
order of the nobles and knights, and the deputies from the towns, the voice of a few prelates
was powerless; and the unseemly ridicule and offensive contempt of the former soon drove them
entirely from the provincial diets.  Thus the whole of the Austrian Diet had imperceptibly
become Protestant, and the Reformation was making rapid strides towards its public recognition.
The prince was dependent on the Estates, who had it in their power to grant or refuse supplies.
Accordingly, they availed themselves of the financial necessities of Ferdinand and his son
to extort one religious concession after another.  To the nobles and knights, Maximilian at
last conceded the free exercise of their religion, but only within their own territories and
castles.  The intemperate enthusiasm of the Protestant preachers overstepped the boundaries
which prudence had prescribed.  In defiance of the express prohibition, several of them ventured
to preach publicly, not only in the towns, but in Vienna itself, and the people flocked in
crowds to this new doctrine, the best seasoning of which was personality and abuse.  Thus continued
food was supplied to fanaticism, and the hatred of two churches, that were such near neighbours,
was farther envenomed by the sting of an impure zeal.

Among the hereditary dominions of the House of Austria, Hungary and Transylvania were the most
unstable, and the most difficult to retain. The impossibility of holding these two countries
against the neighbouring and overwhelming power of the Turks, had already driven Ferdinand
to the inglorious expedient of recognizing, by an annual tribute, the Porte's supremacy over
Transylvania; a shameful confession of weakness, and a still more dangerous temptation to the
turbulent nobility, when they fancied they had any reason to complain of their master.  Not
without conditions had the Hungarians submitted to the House of Austria.  They asserted the
elective freedom of their crown, and boldly contended for all those prerogatives of their order
which are inseparable from this freedom of election.  The near neighbourhood of Turkey, the
facility of changing masters with impunity, encouraged the magnates still more in their presumption;
discontented with the Austrian government they threw themselves into the arms of the Turks;
dissatisfied with these, they returned again to their German sovereigns. The frequency and
rapidity of these transitions from one government to another, had communicated its influences
also to their mode of thinking; and as their country wavered between the Turkish and Austrian
rule, so their minds vacillated between revolt and submission.  The more unfortunate each nation
felt itself in being degraded into a province of a foreign kingdom, the stronger desire did
they feel to obey a monarch chosen from amongst themselves, and thus it was always easy for
an enterprising noble to obtain their support.  The nearest Turkish pasha was always ready
to bestow the Hungarian sceptre and crown on a rebel against Austria; just as ready was Austria
to confirm to any adventurer the possession of provinces which he had wrested from the Porte,
satisfied with preserving thereby the shadow of authority, and with erecting at the same time
a barrier against the Turks.  In this way several of these magnates, Batbori, Boschkai, Ragoczi,
and Bethlen succeeded in establishing themselves, one after another, as tributary sovereigns
in Transylvania and Hungary; and they maintained their ground by no deeper policy than that
of occasionally joining the enemy, in order to render themselves more formidable to their own
prince.

Ferdinand, Maximilian, and Rodolph, who were all sovereigns of Hungary and Transylvania, exhausted
their other territories in endeavouring to defend these from the hostile inroads of the Turks,
and to put down intestine rebellion.  In this quarter destructive wars were succeeded but by
brief truces, which were scarcely less hurtful:  far and wide the land lay waste, while the
injured serf had to complain equally of his enemy and his protector.  Into these countries
also the Reformation had penetrated; and protected by the freedom of the States, and under
the cover of the internal disorders, had made a noticeable progress.  Here too it was incautiously
attacked, and party spirit thus became yet more dangerous from religious enthusiasm.  Headed
by a bold rebel, Boschkai, the nobles of Hungary and Transylvania raised the standard of rebellion.
The Hungarian insurgents were upon the point of making common cause with the discontented Protestants
in Austria, Moravia, and Bohemia, and uniting all those countries in one fearful revolt.  The
downfall of popery in these lands would then have been inevitable.

Long had the Austrian archdukes, the brothers of the Emperor, beheld with silent indignation
the impending ruin of their house; this last event hastened their decision.  The Archduke Matthias,
Maximilian's second son, Viceroy in Hungary, and Rodolph's presumptive heir, now came forward
as the stay of the falling house of Hapsburg.  In his youth, misled by a false ambition, this
prince, disregarding the interests of his family, had listened to the overtures of the Flemish
insurgents, who invited him into the Netherlands to conduct the defence of their liberties
against the oppression of his own relative, Philip the Second. Mistaking the voice of an insulated
faction for that of the entire nation, Matthias obeyed the call.  But the event answered the
expectations of the men of Brabant as little as his own, and from this imprudent enterprise
he retired with little credit.

Far more honourable was his second appearance in the political world. Perceiving that his repeated
remonstrances with the Emperor were unavailing, he assembled the archdukes, his brothers and
cousins, at Presburg, and consulted with them on the growing perils of their house, when they
unanimously assigned to him, as the oldest, the duty of defending that patrimony which a feeble
brother was endangering. The news was received in the city four days later with every demonstration
of joy; the Tower guns were discharged, flags hung out, bells set ringing and bonfires lighted.(1859)

(M930)

The
Court of Aldermen resolved to give the king a more than ordinary reception on his return. Search was
made for precedents as to the manner in which former kings had been received on their return from
progresses or from parts beyond the sea, and these precedents, from the time of Edward IV down
to that of King Charles II, were duly reported to the court by a committee appointed to make
the search.(1860) The committee was next instructed to consider of suitable ways and methods for
the reception of his majesty if he should be pleased to pass through the city, and on this
also the committee reported with elaborate detail.(1861) These and
other preparations were all made under the apprehension that the king
was about to return immediately.

Weeks went by and no king appeared. The Court of Aldermen availed themselves of the delay to put
the finishing touches to the programme of welcome that was to be accorded him, and to commit
into custody any suspicious character they found.(1862) At length, after long and impatient expectation,
news came that the king had landed at Margate on the 14th November.(1863) By the following night
his majesty reached Greenwich and rested in the handsome building which, at the desire of
his beloved queen, had been recently converted from a palace into a hospital for disabled seamen.(1864)

(M931)

The
lord mayor immediately issued his precept to the several livery companies (they had received
a previous warning to prepare for the occasion on the 1st October)(1865) to be ready in their
stands by eight o’clock on the morning of Tuesday the 16th November, well apparelled and with
all the ornaments of their companies before them.(1866) That morning witnessed one of the finest
sights that had ever been seen in the city of London, famous as it always had been for its pageantry.
No expense had been spared in providing new gowns for the magistrates and new banners for the
companies.

The mayor, aldermen and sheriffs rode out "in their formalities" as far as Southwark, where
they met the king, and where the usual ceremony took place of surrendering the civic sword
into his majesty’s hands, to be immediately returned to the lord mayor.
 
This privilege had been conceded to the followers of Huss by the Council of Basle, in an express
treaty, (the Bohemian Compact); and though it was afterwards disavowed by the popes, they nevertheless
continued to profit by it under the sanction of the government.  As the use of the cup formed
the only important distinction of their body, they were usually designated by the name of Utraquists;
and they readily adopted an appellation which reminded them of their dearly valued privilege.
But under this title lurked also the far stricter sects of the Bohemian and Moravian Brethren,
who differed from the predominant church in more important particulars, and bore, in fact,
a great resemblance to the German Protestants.  Among them both, the German and Swiss opinions
on religion made rapid progress; while the name of Utraquists, under which they managed to
disguise the change of their principles, shielded them from persecution.

In truth, they had nothing in common with the Utraquists but the name; essentially, they were
altogether Protestant.  Confident in the strength of their party, and the Emperor's toleration
under Maximilian, they had openly avowed their tenets.  After the example of the Germans, they
drew up a Confession of their own, in which Lutherans as well as Calvinists recognized their
own doctrines, and they sought to transfer to the new Confession the privileges of the original
Utraquists.  In this they were opposed by their Roman Catholic countrymen, and forced to rest
content with the Emperor's verbal assurance of protection.

As long as Maximilian lived, they enjoyed complete toleration, even under the new form they
had taken.  Under his successor the scene changed.  An imperial edict appeared, which deprived
the Bohemian Brethren of their religious freedom.  Now these differed in nothing from the other
Utraquists.  The sentence, therefore, of their condemnation, obviously included all the partisans
of the Bohemian Confession. Accordingly, they all combined to oppose the imperial mandate in
the Diet, but without being able to procure its revocation.  The Emperor and the Roman Catholic
Estates took their ground on the Compact and the Bohemian Constitution; in which nothing appeared
in favour of a religion which had not then obtained the voice of the country.  Since that time,
how completely had affairs changed! What then formed but an inconsiderable opinion, had now
become the predominant religion of the country.  And what was it then, but a subterfuge to
limit a newly spreading religion by the terms of obsolete treaties?  The Bohemian Protestants
appealed to the verbal guarantee of Maximilian, and the religious freedom of the Germans, with
whom they argued they ought to be on a footing of equality.  It was in vain--their appeal was
dismissed.

Such was the posture of affairs in Bohemia, when Matthias, already master of Hungary, Austria,
and Moravia, appeared in Kolin, to raise the Bohemian Estates also against the Emperor.  The
embarrassment of the latter was now at its height.  Abandoned by all his other subjects, he
placed his last hopes on the Bohemians, who, it might be foreseen, would take advantage of
his necessities to enforce their own demands.  After an interval of many years, he once more
appeared publicly in the Diet at Prague; and to convince the people that he was really still
in existence, orders were given that all the windows should be opened in the streets through
which he was to pass--proof enough how far things had gone with him.  The event justified his
fears.  The Estates, conscious of their own power, refused to take a single step until their
privileges were confirmed, and religious toleration fully assured to them.  It was in vain
to have recourse now to the old system of evasion. The Emperor's fate was in their hands, and
he must yield to necessity. At present, however, he only granted their other demands--religious
matters he reserved for consideration at the next Diet.

The Bohemians now took up arms in defence of the Emperor, and a bloody war between the two
brothers was on the point of breaking out.  But Rodolph, who feared nothing so much as remaining
in this slavish dependence on the Estates, waited not for a warlike issue, but hastened to
effect a reconciliation with his brother by more peaceable means.  By a formal act of abdication
he resigned to Matthias, what indeed he had no chance of wresting from him, Austria and the
kingdom of Hungary, and acknowledged him as his successor to the crown of Bohemia.

Dearly enough had the Emperor extricated himself from one difficulty, only to get immediately
involved in another.  The settlement of the religious affairs of Bohemia had been referred
to the next Diet, which was held in 1609.  The reformed Bohemians demanded the free exercise
of their faith, as under the former emperors; a Consistory of their own; the cession of the
University of Prague; and the right of electing `Defenders', or `Protectors' of `Liberty',
from their own body.  The answer was the same as before; for the timid Emperor was now entirely
fettered by the unreformed party.  However often, and in however threatening language the Estates
renewed their remonstrances, the Emperor persisted in his first declaration of granting nothing
beyond the old compact.  The Diet broke up without coming to a decision; and the Estates, exasperated
against the Emperor, arranged a general meeting at Prague, upon their own authority, to right
themselves.

They appeared at Prague in great force.  In defiance of the imperial prohibition, they carried
on their deliberations almost under the very eyes of the Emperor.  The yielding compliance
which he began to show, only proved how much they were feared, and increased their audacity.
Yet on the main point he remained inflexible.  They fulfilled their threats, and at last resolved
to establish, by their own power, the free and universal exercise of their religion, and to
abandon the Emperor to his necessities until he should confirm this resolution.  They even
went farther, and elected for themselves the DEFENDERS which the Emperor had refused them. It
is much the same with male labour. "An English worker may be expected to produce work equal
to the output of four Japanese hands." Labour for heads of departments is also difficult to get.
There are textile schools and probably a hundred men are graduated yearly. But the men are not
all fitted for the jobs which are vacant. Therefore, one finds a man acting as an engineer who,
because of his lack of technical experience, is unable to exercise sufficient control over
the men in his charge. A curiosity of the industry is the high wages which many men of this
sort command.

They are really being paid better for inferior work than skilled men in England. The capital
of the factories in 1918 was 46-1/2 million yen with 32-3/4 million
paid up.  The Utraquists,
for by this title the Bohemian Protestants continued to designate themselves, were put in possession
of the University of Prague, and allowed a Consistory of their own, entirely independent of
the archiepiscopal see of that city. There was more than 100 million yen invested in the woollen textile
business, manufacturing and retail. The industry did well during the War by supplies of cloth to
Russia and of yarn and muslin to countries which ordinarily are able
to supply themselves.
This last clause in the Letter of Majesty gave rise to the unfortunate disputes which subsequently
rekindled the flames of war in Europe.

The Letter of Majesty erected the Protestant part of Bohemia into a kind of republic.  The
Estates had learned to feel the power which they gained by perseverance, unity, and harmony
in their measures.  The Emperor now retained little more than the shadow of his sovereign authority;
while by the new dignity of the so-called defenders of liberty, a dangerous stimulus was given
to the spirit of revolt.  The example and success of Bohemia afforded a tempting seduction
to the other hereditary dominions of Austria, and all attempted by similar means to extort
similar privileges.  The spirit of liberty spread from one province to another; and as it was
chiefly the disunion among the Austrian princes that had enabled the Protestants so materially
to improve their advantages, they now hastened to effect a reconciliation between the Emperor
and the King of Hungary.

