BIOGRAPHY OF A SLAVE

Being The Experiences Of Rev. Charles Thompson, A Preacher Of The United Brethren Church,

WHILE A SLAVE IN THE SOUTH.

Together With Startling Occurrences Incidental To Slave Life.

1875.

PREFACE.

In publishing this book I hope to do good not only to my own race, but to all who may read
it. I am not a book-maker, and make no pretensions to literary attainments; and I have made
no efforts to create for myself a place in the literary, book-making ranks. I claim for my
book truthfulness and honesty of purpose, and upon that basis it must succeed or fail. The
Biography of a Slave is called for by a very large number of my immediate acquaintances, and,
I am assured, will meet with such reception as to justify the expense I have incurred in having
it printed and bound. To the members of the United Brethren Church, white as well as colored,
I look for help in the sale and circulation of my work, yet I am satisfied I will receive commendable
patronage from members of all Christian churches everywhere.

The book is written in the narrative style, as being much better suited to the tastes and capacities
of my colored readers, and I have used simple and plain English language, discarding the idiomatic
and provincial language of the southern slaves and ignorant whites, expecting thereby to help
educate the blacks in the use of proper language.

I am indebted to William H. Rhodes, Esq., attorney at law, of Newman, Douglas County, Illinois,
for his valuable assistance in the preparation of my manuscript for the printer. He has re-written
the whole of it for me, and has otherwise assisted me in the matter of placing the book before
the public.

CHARLES THOMPSON.

Newman, Illinois, Aug., 1874.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Charles Thompson, born in Atala County, Mississippi--Division of Kirkwood's slaves among his
six Children--The writer and his two sisters fall to Mrs. Wilson--The parting between mother
and child--Deprived of a fond mother forever--Old Uncle Jack--Wilson buys Uncle Ben from Strucker--Uncle
Ben runs away and is hunted with blood-hounds--Two hundred dollars reward.

CHAPTER II.

Not sent to hell by Wilson--Mrs. Wilson protects me, to whom I belong--Sent to school with
the children--The school-children teach me to read and write--What came of it--Mount that mule
or I'll shoot you--I mounted the mule--A start for the railroad to work--I dismount and take
to the woods--I owe allegiance to God and my country only.

CHAPTER III.

Caught, tried, and taken back home to James Wilson--My mistress saves me from being whipped--I
go to the railroad and work one month precisely--Go back home--Wilson surprised--Left the railroad
at 3 o'clock A.M.--Did not want to disturb Leadbitter's rest--Sent to Memphis with a load of
cotton--Afraid of the slave-pens and slave-auction--Start for home--Not sold--Pray, sing, and
shout--Get home and ordered to hire myself out.

CHAPTER IV.

Start out on my travels to hunt a new master--Find Mr. Dansley--Hire to him--Thirty dollars
per month for my master and five dollars for myself--Wilson astonished--Appointed superintendent
of Dansley's farm--Rules and regulations--Peace and tranquillity--My moral labors successful--Prayer
and social meetings--Meetings in the woods--Quarrel and fight like very brothers--Time comes
to be moved to another field of labor.

CHAPTER V.

James Wilson comes along--Wants me to go with him to Saulsbury, Tennessee, to help build a
house for a grocery-store--Takes me along with him--Wilson taken sick--I take care of him--He
gels well--I make another attempt to escape from slavery--What came of it.

CHAPTER VI.

Was hired to Mr. Thompson, and adopted his name--Opened regular meetings, and preached on the
plantation and other places--Took unto myself a wife--Was purchased by Thompson, duly installed
on the plantation, and invested with authority--Various means and plans resorted to by the
overseer to degrade me in the eyes of Mr. Thompson--Driven, through persecution, to run away--Return
back to my master.

BIOGRAPHY OF A SLAVE.

I was a slave, and was born in Atala County, Mississippi, near the town of Rockford, on the
third day of March, 1833. My father and mother both being slaves, of course my pedigree is
not traceable, by me, farther back than my parents. Our family belonged to a man named Kirkwood,
who was a large slave-owner. Kirkwood died when I was about nine years old, after which, upon
the settlement of the affairs of his estate, the slaves belonging to the estate were divided
equally, as to value, among the six heirs. There were about seventy-five slaves to be divided
into six lots; and great was the tribulation among the poor blacks when they learned that they
were to be separated.

When the division was completed two of my sisters and myself were cast into one lot, my mother
into another, and my father into another, and the rest of the family in the other lots. Young
and slave as I was, I felt the pang of separation from my loved and revered mother; child that
I was I mourned for mother, even before our final separation, as one dead to me forever. So
early to be deprived of a fond mother, by the "law," gave me my first view of the curse of
slavery. Until this time I did not know what trouble was, but from then until the tocsin of
freedom was sounded through the glorious Emancipation Proclamation by the immortal Abraham
Lincoln, I passed through hardship after hardship, in quick succession, and many, many times
I have almost seen and tasted death.

I bade farewell to my mother, forever, on this earth. Oh! the pangs of that moment. Even after
thirty years have elapsed the scene comes vividly to my memory as I write. A gloomy, dark cloud
seemed to pass before my vision, and the very air seemed to still with awfulness. I felt bereaved,
forlorn, forsaken, lost. Put yourself in my place; feel what I have felt, and then say, God
is just; he will protect the helpless and right the wronged, and you will have some idea of
my feelings and the hope that sustained me through long and weary years of servitude. My mother,
my poor mother! what must she have suffered. Never will I forget her last words; never will
I forget the earnest prayers of that mother begging for her child, and refusing to be comforted.
She had fallen to the lot of Mrs. Anderson, and she pleaded with burning tears streaming down
her cheeks, "He is my only son, my baby child, my youngest and the only son I have; please
let me have him to go with me!"

Anderson spoke roughly to her and told her to hold her peace; but with her arms around me she
clung to me and cried the louder, "Let me have my child; if you will let me have my baby you
may have all the rest!"

Mothers can realize this situation only, who have parted with children whom they never expected
to see again. Imagine parting with your dearest child, never to see it again; to be thrown
into life-servitude in one part of the country and your dear child in the same condition six
hundred miles away. Although my mother was black, she had a soul; she had a heart to feel just
as you have, and I, her child, was being ruthlessly torn from her by inexorable "law." What
would you have done if you had been in her place? She prayed to God for help.

My kind old father consoled and encouraged my mother all he could, and said to her, "Do not
be discouraged, for Jesus is your friend; if you lack for knowledge, he will inform you, and
if you meet with troubles and trials on your way, cast all your cares on Jesus, and don't forget
to pray." The old man spoke these words while praying, shouting, crying, and saying farewell
to my mother. He had, in a manner, raised nearly all the colored people on the plantation;
so he had a fatherly feeling for all of them. The old man looked down on me, and said, "My
child, you are now without a father and will soon be without a mother; but be a good boy, and
God will be father and mother to you. If you will put your trust in him and pray to him, he
will take you home to heaven when you die, where you can meet your mother there, where parting
will be no more. Farewell." I was then taken from my mother, and have not seen or heard of
her since--about twenty-nine years ago. Old Uncle Jack, as my father was called by the plantation
people, spoke words of comfort to all of us before we were parted.

The lot of human chattels, of which I was one, was taken to their new home on Wilson's plantation,
in the same county as the Kirkwood plantation. Wilson told my sisters and myself that our mother
and ourselves were about six hundred miles apart.

After I had been in my new home about two years, Wilson bought my uncle Ben from a man named
Strucker, who lived in the same neighborhood, but he did not buy uncle Ben's wife. Two years
later Wilson moved to another plantation he owned in Pontotoc County, Mississippi, about one
hundred miles distant from his Atala County plantation. Ben not being willing to go so far
from his wife, ran away from his master. The same remarks apply to S. Croce at Jerusalem, which Constantine
erected at the entreaty of his mother, Helena; of S. Lorenzo outside the wall, and of S. Agnesa,
built by the same emperor at the request of his daughter Constance. Who also is not aware that
the font which served for the baptism of the latter and of one of her sisters, was ornamented with
fragments of great antiquity? as were the porphyry pillar carved with beautiful figures and
some marble candelabra exquisitely carved with leaves, and some children in bas-relief of extraordinary
beauty? In short, by these and many other signs, it is clear that sculpture was in decadence
in the time of Constantine, and with it the other superior arts.
 The slaves of the South were united in the one particular of helping each other in
such cases as this, and would adopt ingenious telegrams and signals to communicate with each
other; and it may well be believed that the inventive genius of the blacks was, as a general
thing, equal to all emergencies, and when driven to extremities they were brave to a fault.
Ben's wife, in this instance, used the simple device of hanging a certain garment in a particular
spot, easily to be seen from Ben's covert, and which denoted that the coast was clear and no
danger need be apprehended. The garment and the place of hanging it had to be changed every
day, yet the signals thus made were true to the purpose, and saved uncle Ben from capture.
Uncle Ben was closely chased by the hounds and inhuman men-hunters; on one occasion so closely
that he plunged into a stream and followed the current for more than a mile. Taking to the
water threw the hounds off the scent of the track. Before reaching the stream, uncle Ben was
so closely pursued that one of the men in the gang shot at him, the bullet passing unpleasantly
close to him. His wife heard the hounds and the gun-shot. This race for life and liberty was
only one of a continued series, and was repeated as often as blood-hounds could find a track
to follow. At night Ben was very much fatigued and hungry, and his only hope of getting anything
to eat was to reach his wife's cabin. How to do this without being observed, was the question.
As well as he was able, about midnight he left his retreat and approached the cabin. It was
too dark to see a signal if one had been placed for him in the usual manner. After waiting
for some time a bright light shot through the cracks in the cabin for an instant, and was repeated
at intervals of two or three minutes, three or four times. This was the night-signal of "all
right" agreed upon between uncle Ben and his wife, and was made by placing the usual grease
light under a vessel and raising the vessel for a moment at intervals. Ben approached the cabin
and gave his signal by rapping on the door three times, and after a short pause three more
raps. Thus they had to arrange to meet; the husband to obtain food to sustain life, and the
wife to administer to him. On this particular night their meeting was unusually impressive.
She had heard the death-hounds, the sound of the gun-shot, and she knew the yelps of the hounds
and the shot were intended for Ben, her husband. With no crime laid to him, he was hunted down
as a wild beast. Made in God's own image, he is made a slave, a brute, an outcast, and an outlaw
because his skin is black. Thus they met, Ben and his wife. After the usual precautions and
mutual congratulations they both kneeled before the throne of God and thanked him for their
preservation thus far, and throwing themselves upon his goodness and bounty, asked help in
their need and safety in the future. Without rising from his knees, Ben, even in the anguish
of his heart, consoled his wife, remarking, "that the darkest hour is always just before daylight."

The blacks of the South have their own peculiar moral maxims, applicable to all situations
in life, and the slaves not knowing how to read committed such Bible truths as were read to
them from time to time. It is true they were generally superstitious in a great degree, as
all ignorant persons are; yet their native sense of right led them to adopt the best and most
religious principles, dressed in homely "sayings," their circumstances permitted.

Ben dare not stay very long at a time in his wife's cabin, as a strict watch was constantly
kept, that the runaway might be apprehended. Bidding his wife farewell, Ben hastened back to
one of a number of his hiding-places, there to stay through the day, unless routed out by the
blood-hounds. He was fortunate, however, in the help of God, for his safety, and the efforts
of the hounds and the hounds' followers were futile.

Finally, Wilson gave up chasing Ben with blood-hounds, and resolved to try a better and more
human method. He bought Ben's wife and left her with Strucker, with instructions to send her
and Ben to his plantation if Ben was willing for the arrangement. Ben soon got word of how
matters stood with reference to himself, and concluded if he could live with his wife on the
same plantation that it was the very best he could do, so he acceded to the wishes of Wilson,
and was sent with his wife to Wilson.

The happiness of this couple was unbounded when they found they could once more live together
as God intended they should, and the poor wife in her great gratitude cried, "God is on our
side!" Ben replied that he had told her on one occasion that God was on their side, and that
"the darkest hour was just before day."

The usual expression used by the blacks when a runaway returned to his master was that he "had
come out of the woods;" that is, he had left his hiding place in the woods and returned to
the plantation to work.

When I heard that uncle Ben had come out of the woods, and was coming to live on our plantation,
my joy knew no bounds. On the day when he was expected to arrive I got permission to go out
on the road some distance and meet them. Early in the morning I caught a horse and started.
Every wagon I met filled me with hope and fear blended; hope that the wagon contained my uncle
and aunt, and fear that it did not. I rode on, on, on, all that day, until my heart was sick
with hope deferred. I had received orders before starting that if I did not meet them that
day to return home. But I was so far from home, and with straining my eyes to catch a glimpse
of my uncle, added to my keen disappointment in not seeing them, made me feel tired, sick,
and worn out. So I stopped at a friendly cabin that night, after telling the inmates who I
was and what my errand was. Early the next morning I was out, and the anxiety to see my uncle
was so great I thought I would ride out the road a short distance in the hope of meeting him,
notwithstanding my orders to return home. After traveling about an hour I met the wagon containing
uncle Ben and his wife. The joy of that moment to me is inexpressible. Having been deprived
of mother and father he was the only relative my sisters and myself could ever have any hopes
of seeing again. My heart rejoiced exceedingly. I was, as it were, a new boy entirely, so overcome
was I. We all arrived home that same day, and it was a much more pleasant trip than I had taken
the day before. On that day it was all anxiety, mixed with hope and fear; to-day it was all
joy and thanksgiving, again proving uncle Ben's saying that "the darkest hour is always just
before day." My sisters were simply wild with joy when we arrived. They ran out the road to
meet, us crying, "There comes uncle Ben; we have one more friend!" We were all comforted and
rejoiced to a very great extent, and we felt indeed that we had "one more friend" with us.
We were as happy as slaves could be, and spent all the time we could together--uncle Ben, his
wife, my sisters, and myself.

But Wilson harbored a grudge toward uncle Ben because he had to buy his wife in order to get
him, and had said that if he ever got Ben after he ran away he would whip him to death. He
treated Ben very well for the time being, but about a year after he had got him home he began
to put his plans into operation for severely punishing him. He was afraid of Ben's prayers.
Although Wilson would not have hesitated a moment to have put any plan into execution he may
have conceived, under ordinary circumstances, yet praying Ben, while defending himself by appeals
to Almighty God was stronger than with carnal weapons in his hands. Wilson proceeded cautiously
and laid snares for Ben. Uncle Ben was one of the best hands on the plantation, and religiously
performed the labor alloted him truly and persistently. He obeyed his overseer and Wilson in
all things pertaining to his manual occupation, and obeyed God to the very best of his ability
in this as in everything else. But Wilson wanted to punish Ben, and was determined to do so.
He knew that Ben was a faithful slave to labor, and was reliable, yet he wished to break Ben's
spirit--his manhood, the God part of him. Wilson did not seem to know that he was not fighting
Ben in his scheme of revenge but that he was fighting God in Ben, and that although he punished
Ben to the death he would be conquered himself, and more severely punished than he could ever
hope to punish Ben. But Wilson was mad, infatuated, and satanically determined. Precautious
preparations were made by Wilson to insure success in his revengeful scheme, and after having
obtained the aid of several neighbors who were what might be called professional slave-whippers,
he deemed his undertaking to punish and conquer Ben fully ripe for execution. Ben being a field
hand was busily employed picking cotton, with a prayerful heart, and a watchful eye on Wilson.
From Wilson's actions Ben was sure something was going to occur which would nearly concern
him, and having been hunted like a beast he had become suspicious and on his guard all the
time. Having a feeling of presentiment, he was uneasy, and, as was usual with him, he kneeled
down and asked God to protect him from the machinations of his enemies, and give him heart,
courage, and strength to overcome the evil intended him. While praying he was startled by the
snort of a horse, and on looking around to ascertain the cause of the noise he discovered himself
almost surrounded by armed men on horseback. No time to think now; the time for action had
arrived. Ben knew at once the flight was for life. Better, however, was death than to be thus
hunted and harassed. Bounding through the field he gained a friendly covert, and seemingly
by mere chance he eluded his pursuers and the hounds. Ben thanked God for his deliverance.
Wilson with his heartless band were again baffled, and with man-hunting and disappointments
in his man-chase he became furious. Ben stayed in the woods about four weeks, and during all
this time my sisters, Ben's wife, and myself were kept in close confinement, to keep us from
communicating with Ben or rendering him any assistance. Thus all of us had to suffer. But we
were only slaves.

Wilson finally took Ben's wife to a man in Oxford, about twenty-five miles distant, and came
back circulating the word among the blacks that he had sold her. Wilson had made arrangements
at Oxford with some professional slave-hunters to catch Ben if he ever came to see his wife,
for which purpose she had been taken there.

After a time Ben was informed that he and his wife had been sold by Wilson to a man in Oxford,
and of course believing such to be the fact, he went there to see her, and make arrangements
for the future. His wife was told by the man with whom Wilson had left her that he had bought
both her and Ben, and wished her to get Ben to "come out of the woods." Laboring under this
delusion, Ben was month. The cabin was surrounded by armed men, when Ben was overpowered, chained,
and put in jail for safe keeping until Wilson should come after him. Living in the woods so
long and the harsh treatment he was now receiving wore Ben down considerably; yet, believing
that "the darkest hour is just before day," he relied on God's help in his misery.

Wilson came for Ben in due time, and after chaining him securely around the neck he fastened
one end of the chain to the rear of his buggy and literally, a part of the time, dragged him
to Holly Springs, about thirty miles from Oxford, where he sold him to a man who had the reputation
of being the hardest master in the country. Wilson afterwards took Ben's wife home. Thus they
were separated,--Ben and his wife,--never to meet again on this earth.

Wilson told me when he got home that he had sent Ben to hell, and that he would send me there
too. Infatuated man; he supposed he had done with Ben for the very worst; he thought he had
as much power over the souls of his slaves as he had under "the laws" over their bodies. He
found, however, in time, that God was with us, and in his good time he delivered us from our
bondage and punished our persecutors as they deserved.

The monotonous tedium of routine slave-labor was very often broken by some scene of cruelty
to one or another of the poor blacks, either by the master or his overseer; and woe unto the
luckless one if the master should happen to be in a good mood to break bones. Although slaves
were worth money in the South at that time, yet the ungovernable passions of some if not most
masters found free vent in cruelty to their own property--that is, their slaves. This was the
case with Wilson, and no opportunity was missed by him to make a poor black feel the effects
of his brutish nature and passions. His wife, on the other hand, made every effort to protect
the blacks on the plantation as much as possible. When Wilson threatened to send me to hell,
as he had tried to send uncle Ben, Mrs. Wilson came forward in my behalf and saved me from
her husband's unwarranted wrath by telling him that she wished "Charles to accompany her children
to school and take such care of them as might be required." It was customary in the South for
families who owned slaves to send one or more of them with their children when they attended
school as waiters, or personal servants, and as I belonged to Mrs. Wilson, being an inherited
chattel, Wilson acceded to her demand, and I was sent along with the children when they went
to school. It would cripple some insurance companies and ruin others. Hence the savings of thrifty
workers would be confiscated or destroyed by the State together with
those of the larger capitalists.

The Socialists are not entirely agreed as to the way by which the
abolition of private ownership in land should be effected, but some
interesting proposals will be found in Chapter X., "Socialist Views
and Proposals regarding Taxation and the National Budget."

It has always been a kind of habit with me to "be doing something" all the time, and when not
actually employed in some active work I would make use of my time for some good purpose; and
while "loafing around" that school-house it occurred to me as being strange that the white
children should be compelled to sit and study hour after hour, while us little darkies "loafed
around" and did nothing. Why couldn't we lighten our young masters and mistresses of that labor
as well as other kinds of labor? I determined that my young mistresses should not be made slaves
of by the school-master, but that I would do that work for them, as they were generally so
kind to me. So I proposed the matter to them, and they were tremendously pleased; at least
they laughed and chatted a great deal about me getting their lessons for them, which so elated
me that I could not avoid turning handsprings and somersaults all the way home that evening,
my joy being so great at the idea of doing my mistresses the favor of taking such great labor
off their hands as getting their lessons. I did not doubt my ability to perform the work, for
I was stout, hearty, and large for my age, and could almost make a full hand in the field.
Such was my idea at that time of getting lessons. However, the next day my young mistresses
told me the school-master would not allow me to study their lessons for them, but that I might
take a book and sit outside of the school-house and study there, but that I must be sure and
not let any one see me. Why not? Why should I not study lessons in the school-house for my
young mistresses? Because it is against the "law" for slaves to learn to read and write. Well,
that is curious. A person, because he is a slave, must not study lessons; must not learn to
read and write because it is against the "law." What law?

My mistress used often to read to the children from a book which told about Jesus, and Mary,
and Lazarus, and Peter, and Paul; and how Jesus was our Savior, and shed his precious blood
for the redemption of all who believed him and would obey his commands; and how Jesus said,
"Suffer little children to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." Did the "law"
prohibit me from studying lessons out of a book about Jesus, and learning to read about Jesus
as my mistress did? When my mistress sent my young mistresses to Jesus wouldn't she send me
along with them just the same as she sent me to school with them? I reckon so. Such was my
reasoning; and I determined to assist my young mistresses in getting their lessons, law or
no law, let the consequences be what they may.

I received the book and went out from the school-house a short distance, and secured myself
from observation in a shady place. I opened the book--a spelling-book it was. Hallo! here's
a dog and a cat, and here's a sheep too, and right here in the corner is a yoke--a regular
ox-yoke. Well, now, this is nice. So I got my first idea of what a book contained by the pictures
in a spelling-book. The print in the book meant something, I was sure, and my mind was employed
until recess in endeavors to make out what the print and pictures were intended for. The scholars
came out at recess, and my mistresses gave me such instructions as they were able, which gave
me a start ahead that enabled me to memorize the first six letters of the alphabet by the time
school dismissed for noon.

