"But who knows or cares for Kepler's great law of Repulsion, or Apergy?  That was that the
'square of the times are as the cubes of the distance.'  It has lain fallow for centuries.
No one of your western physicists has ever studied it, or tried to explain it.  It remains
just where Kepler left it, as the mere law of orbital revolution of the planets only.

"It is the key to the proper understanding of the universe.

"'The squares of the times are as the cubes of the distance' means that all motion is the result
of two forces acting upon prakriti, and that where the two forces are balanced, or equal, the
result in motion is a circle or ellipse, the square of the Repulsion being equal to the cube
of the Attraction to make them equal and produce a circle.  In other cases they produce hyperbola
and parabola.

"This is a little dry--nearly all fundamental knowledge is--but the reward of patience is great. 

In May and June, what Fluxes we had at Osnabruck, were the remaining old Cases of the Hospitals of
Munster, Paderborn, Hoxter, and Niehms. Some few recent ones were sent to Bilifield about the End
of June, and above 300 to Munster, in July and August.  An ellipse is
a circle bent a little, and the ellipse in which the earth actually moves comes from varying
attraction and repulsion.  Kepler's second law covers that.

"If the orbital speed of the earth were a mile less per hour, or even a foot less, then the
earth would wind up around the sun as a dog gets wound up with his chain around a tree.  If
this speed were a mile more per hour, then the earth would wind out, each year getting farther
and farther away, until finally it would be lost.  When the speed is exactly proportional to
the pull--that is, when it is as 1.6 is to 2,--the result is a circular orbit, the eccentricity
of which is caused by certain fluctuations in the attraction and repulsion.

"Suppose a planet were to be placed so that it would have a time of two years.  Its distance
from the sun would be 1.6 that of the earth.  Why?  Because to get the time doubled we would
have to take the square root of 4;  and to get the distance the cube root of the same number,
4.  If you wish to be very exact the cube root is 1.5889, but 1.6 is near enough for all ordinary
work.

"If you wanted to find out the distance of a planet revolving in six months you would divide
the earth's distance by 1.6.

"In proportion you get any time or distance you may desire with absolute accuracy.  The distance
of any planet from the sun gives its time, or its time gives its distance--when that of any
of the others is known.  This law applies throughout the universe; in everything and everywhere.
It is not a law of orbital revolution alone, but a law of all motion.

"Our moon has a time of 29 days and a speed of about 50,000 miles per day.  If the speed were
greater it would leave us, if less it would wind up, falling to the earth in the form of a spiral.

"At what distance would it have to be to have a time of fourteen days? Divide 240,000 miles
by 1.6.  A seven-day moon, would be 1.6 that distance.  And the exact distance for a one-day
moon, for a moon that would always be in the same place in the heavens, moving as the earth
revolved on its axis, would be about 24,998 miles.

"This gives us the line of 24-hour axial rotation, the true surface of the earth, and the sheer-line
of prakritic matter. Beyond that line is the ether;  within that line is prakriti.

"It is the line of no weight, where gravity and apergy exactly balance.  Inside that line gravity
exceeds apergy and everything revolving in less time, or that time, must fall to the centre.
It is the true surface of any 24-hour globe of this size and weight.  A moon to revolve around
the earth in less than one day must move faster than the earth to develop enough apergy to
overcome the attraction.  That phenomenon we see in the moons of Mars, which are within its
atmosphere;  within the planet itself.

"We of the East learned this true size of the earth over six thousand years ago, from observing
the moons of Jupiter.  The times of the first three are doubled.  We asked ourselves what this
meant and found that their distance was increased by the cube root of 4 when their times were
increased by the square root of 4;  that time was to distance as 1.6 was to 2.  Then we applied
the key, and found it unlocked many mysteries.

"The first lesson this taught us was that we did not live on the earth, but within the earth,
at the line of liquid and gaseous changes, where the three forms of matter meet and mingle
and interchange with each other.  We lived at the bottom of a gaseous ocean 21,000 miles above
us, and 4,000 miles from the centre of the globe.  It gave us an entirely new conception of
the earth, and of our place in it.

"We saw that we lived in a narrow belt, or skin, of the earth, not more than 100 miles thick,
perhaps not more than ten miles. Within this belt the prakritic elementary substances varied
their condition, combined, and made forms by increasing or decreasing vibration.  It was the
creative and destructive zone, the evolutionary "mother"--the liquid level of the prakriti--the
seat of all physical phenomena.  Fifty miles above, the masses of nitrogen and oxygen and argon
were too cold to change their rate of vibration.  Fifty miles below the surface of the earth
all things were too hot for changes in vibration.  In this kinetic belt, between two static
masses our bodies had been made, and also, in all probability, all combinations of the elementary
substances.  It was four thousand miles to the centre of the static prakritic mass beneath
us;  twenty-one thousand miles to the surface of the static prakritic mass above us, and the
small kinetic belt between was only one hundred miles thick.  But we had one consolation, the
prakriti we had was all kinetic, and the best in the whole mass.

"The second lesson it taught us was that as the earth had been made in the etheric globe, in
a corresponding skin or plane of kinetic etheric energy, with our ether the best of the solar
output, that we ourselves were subject through our ether to the phenomena of that kinetic solar
plane in precisely the same way we now are to the phenomena of the kinetic prakritic plane.
Once rid of the fallacious notion that we were creatures of the surface of the earth, once
clearly conscious that we were creatures of the interior, of the bottom of this gaseous ocean,
then we could understand not only how the earth could be created in this etheric globe, but
how we could be creatures of the solar globe living on it.

"When we learned that lesson, and learned it well, it dawned upon us that we were living in
the pranic globe at the same kinetic level or plane of that globe, the line where its solids
and liquids and gases mingled and passed from one state to another, the kinetic belt in which
our solar globe has been made, and that we were living as truly on that globe as we were on
this prakritic globe.  Our position on each globe was the same.

"And then the great truth came that we lived in the manasic globe, at the same kinetic level;
and that we lived our lives on the four globes simultaneously.  Our bodies are fourfold.  Every
atom is fourfold, ready to respond in our minds to the vibrations of the Manasic world, in
our vitality to the pranic vibrations of the pranic world, in our nerves to the etheric vibrations
of the etheric world, and in our prakriti to vibrations of the prakritic world.  Each one of
our bodies lived on its own earth globe, for there were four globes of this earth--in coadunition--in
its corresponding kind of globe.

"The four earth globes became one globe, as our four bodies were one body;  and the chain of
four kinds of globes in matter became one globe, as the manasic with the others on it.

"These four kinds of globes were the beginning and the end of matter, as we distinguish and
know matter.  They were not the end of vibration;  or of planes of vibration;  or of realms
beyond this material universe;  but they were the limits of all that is common to each and
every atom of this lower plane of vibration.

"It is upon this solid and perfect foundation of physics, that accounts for and explains every
kind of phenomena, we have constructed our metaphysics.  All that belongs to these four lower
planes we consider and treat as physics.  All that relates to the planes beyond we consider
metaphysics.  Can you teach a child equation of payments before he knows the first four rules?
You would not attempt such a task.  The first four rules are the physics of arithmetic;  all
beyond is the metaphysics of arithmetic.  It flows out of them.  Can you comprehend our system
of metaphysics until you have clearly and completely mastered our physics?  Would you not get
into a fog at the very start?

"There can be no system of metaphysics without a solid foundation of physics.  The idea is
unthinkable.  The one grows out of the other.  It is its life;  its fruit, its flower.

"You have no western system of physics.  Your physics are without form and void;  patchwork,
constantly changing.  There is no substantial foundation for any system of metaphysics.  What
you say or do in physics is fragmentary or chaotic.

"It is perfectly true, so far as you have gone through the first invisible world of ether,
you are much more masters of detail than we are.

"We have not cared particularly for the minor details by which explosives are made, or metals
obtained from oxides.  We have preferred to push on into realms beyond as fast as we could,
seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven and its Righteousness, knowing that when it was found all
these things would be added unto us."

Chapter Seven

The Four Globes

That we live in the earth, not on the earth, is one of the most important of the facts of eastern
physics in the study of its metaphysics.  The mathematical and physical proof that the physical
earth is 50,000 miles in diameter should not be passed over lightly in our haste to get on,
for the perfect understanding of all this fact implies makes easy the comprehension of how
we live etherically in the solar etheric globe, of how we live pranically in the stellar pranic
globe, and how we live manasically in the manasic globe.

As we live within the narrow "skin" of phenomena, not more than 100 miles thick, of this prakritic
globe, with the whole earth within the corresponding skin of phenomena of the solar etheric
globe, within the kinetic belt in which it was made, the ether which surrounds each prakritic
molecule is not merely any and every kind of ether, but that particular kind of kinetic ether,
which, by changing its rate of vibration through an octave, creates phenomena.  The ether of
all prakritic matter belongs to the kinetic or creative belt of the solar etheric globe.  It
is not static ether.  The ether in our prakriti is in touch with all the prakritic kinetic
ether of the solar globe, subject to all solar laws of change;  and all our prak-solar laws
of change; and all our prakritic matter, a mere detail of it, is a part of the solar phenomena.
"Our father, the sun," or "Dyaus pitar" ("heavenly father"--Latin, Jupiter) meant more once
than it does now.  Then the solar globe was the first heaven, and to live under its laws, puttings
off the coat of skin, was an object which men believed to be worth striving for.  They recognized,
as we do not, that our prakritic laws were not all they had to obey; that the higher law of
the solar globe on which they lived, of which the lower prakritic laws were merely an outcome
and detail, was worthy of the closest study.  And they recognized that these higher laws of
the etheric globe were metaphysical as well as physical;  that our moral law flows out of the
moral law of the solar etheric world, as our physics flow from and out of solar physics.  Religion
is correct in its assumption of this higher law of morals;  incorrect only in its grasp and
explanation. Before I left Bremen, the first Week in June, the first and second Patients were perfectly
recovered, and the third and fourth almost well. All of them had had the Disorder some Months
before they came to the Hospital.
OF THE ITCH.  They are twin-sisters.

This solar-etheric globe in which we are interested revolves around Alcyone within that kinetic
belt or skin of prana which is subject to phenomena or vibration through one octave--else it
would never have been formed.  All prana in the solar-etheric globe is of this particular kind
of kinetic prana, which creates life of all kinds--which is subject to vibration through one
octave.  The solar globe is a detail of kinetic prana only, one of its phenomena.  Necessarily,
all our prana is of this kinetic kind, and our earth a minor detail of it in the Alcyone globe.
All the changes and combinations possible in kinetic prana on the pranic globe are possible
here, in our kinetic prana, as all the phenomena of the etheric world are possible here in
our kinetic ether.

As our earth is a globe of ether and a globe of prana as well as a globe of prakriti;  we are
actually living on a small "cabbage" of that pranic globe, and subject to all its laws.

In the vast manasic globe that includes this whole material universe there is the same kinetic
belt or skin of "phenomena" or vibration similar to that kinetic belt in which we live on the
earth, and the manasa which permeates the Alcyonic globe, the solar globe, and the earth is
that kinetic manasa which is involving and evolving.  This involving and evolving kinetic manasa
of the Alcyonic globe is that which surrounds every atom of ether of the solar globe and every
atom of prakriti of this earth globe.  In the great manasic globe this earth of ours is a minute
village of Helios (sun) county, in the state of Alcyone. We are actually and literally living
in this manasic globe precisely as we live in this earth, and as in the village we are subject
to all the laws of the manasic world, we can study them here in this village as well as we
could elsewhere.  We can study them as easily as we study our prakritic village laws, or our
etheric county laws, for all the forms of manasa subject to them anywhere are here with us.
We are not limited to a study of the prakritic laws of the village fathers, nor yet to the
etheric laws of the supervisors of Helios county, as scientists say, nor even to the state
laws of Alcyone;  only the manasic laws of the Universe limit our material studies in that
direction.  As some men on this earth never leave their native village and never know or care
for any matters outside of it, so in this little earth village, in the kinetic belt of the
manasic globe, there are men who do not care to know anything which relate to matters outside
its boundaries.  As some men may pass the boundaries of their village, but not of their county,
caring only for the matters concerning it, so the western scientists of this earth village
on the manasic globe do not pass the boundaries of Helios county, caring only for etheric matters.
The philosophers and wise men of the East are broader minded and from time immemorial have
taken greater interest in the pranic affairs of Alcyone and the manasic condition of the universe
in which Alcyone is a state than in the rustic murmur of their village or the gossip of their
county.

There is nothing lacking in our manasic earth-village, nothing that is in more abundant measure
in our county, state, and nation.  We are of the best.

We of this village may imagine, if we like, that there is nothing beyond the village limits,
and nothing in it but that which relates to the village.  We have the right to be silly, if
we wish to be.  And it is no sign of wisdom to say that there is a county beyond, but that
the county boundaries end all, and only village and county politics may be studied.  The European
who believed--no Asiatic or African or American could have believed --that the earth rested
on an elephant and the elephant on a turtle was wise, in comparison.  Nor is it any sign of
intelligence to say that we may learn something of the village and county while we live, but
that to learn anything about the state and nation we must wait until we are dead.  There are
too many in the village who are familiar with both state and nation, and who have studied their
laws, for this to be anything but idiotic.

Chapter Eight

The Battle Ground

Each and every one of our eighty-odd elementary substances owe their condition--whether solid,
liquid, or gas--to their rate of vibration.  We have reduced all gases to a liquid and nearly
all to a solid form.  Conversely, we have raised all solids to a liquid and nearly all to a
gaseous condition.  This has been done by reducing or raising the vibration of each within
one octave --each one of the eighty odd having a special octave, a tone or half-tone different
from any other.  Normally, the solids, vibrating in the lower notes, gather together under
Attraction; while the gases, vibrating in the higher notes, diffuse under Repulsion.  Between
them, created by the interchange of these two forces, is our "skin" of phenomena, or kinetics.

Broadly, the attraction of the universe comes from its vibration at certain centres in the
three higher notes;  the repulsion comes from its vibration everywhere else in the three higher
notes.  The central note, D of the scale, represents the battle ground between the field of
kinetics.  This in simple illustration is water turning into gas.

This is the great battle ground, the only one worth considering in a general view.  There are
minor "critical stages" which the chemist studies, but for us, in this broad sketch of the
universe, the important battle-ground is that between solid and liquid on one side representing
gravity, and gas on the other, representing apergy.

All the solids and liquids of this earth of ours gather at the centre, in a core, each of the
elements (or their combinations) in this core vibrating in their three lower notes, producing
the attraction, which is "in proportion to the mass" and which decreases from the surface of
the core "as the square of the substance."

Around this central core gather all the elements vibrating in the three higher notes of their
octave as gases, producing repulsion which increases by 1.6 for each doubled time.  It is worth
while making this clear.  It has never before appeared in print.

Let the amount of apergy, or repulsion, or centrifugal force at the surface of the earth be
represented by x.  This is the result of motion at the rate of 1,000 miles per hour.  Make
this motion 2,000 miles per hour, and the apergy is increased 1.6.  Four thousand miles above
the surface of this earth the rotation is at the rate of 2,000.  It is the globe of 48,000
miles in circumference revolving in 24 hours, and the speed is doubled. This apergy has increased
by 1.6.  As the apergy increases at this rate every time the speed is doubled, at a distance
of 21,000 miles the speed is 7,000 miles per hour and the centrifugal force has been increased
nearly four times what it was at the surface of the ocean.  The attraction has been decreased
to about one-thirtieth. On the 6th, the Blood, which had been drawn the Day before, had thrown
up a slight Buff; it appeared to contain but a small Proportion of
Serum, and the Crassamentum was of a loose Texture.

The feverish Symptoms had increased, with the Addition of a Delirium: pergat. On the 7th, the
Delirium was grown more violent, so that he could scarce be kept in Bed; his Breathing was
difficult, his Eyes red and florid: A Blister was applied to his Back, and the saline Mixture continued.


If the pyramids had been built of the heaviest known material on the gases 21,000 miles above
us, and so that they should revolve in the same time, 7,000 miles per hour, they would remain
there. All the attraction of the solid core of the earth that could be exerted on them at that
distance would not be enough to pull them an inch nearer to it through our gaseous envelope.
Their gaseous foundation there would be as firm as igneous rock here.

The force of repulsion created by the three higher notes of an octave means just as much at
the attraction created by the three lower notes, whether it is in a chemical retort, within
this earth, or within this universe.  The two forces balance, and are exactly equal.  They
fight only within kinetic zones.

Given the vast manasic globe of differentiated matter, its atoms uniting in different numbers
to form molecules as the bases of elementary substances, manasic substances, of course.  The
thrill of vibration is sweeping through it from the spiritual plane above, and the elements
(and their combinations) which answer in the lower notes gather and form a core, the Invisible
Central Sun, with its attraction.  The elements answering in the higher notes gather around
it with their repulsion.  So the two opposing forces were born, with a vast kinetic skin for
a battle-ground between them.

The attraction of the invisible central sun manifests itself to us in prakriti as Light.  The
repulsion of its covering, or the higher static vibration of manasa, manifests itself to us
as Darkness.  The first creative act in or on matter was the creation of Light and its separation
from the Darkness.  The next creative act was the establishment of a kinetic skin or zone between
them, a firmament in which the two forces of Light and Darkness could strive for mastery. 
"And God called the firmament Heaven."  The third creative act was the gathering of the solids
and liquids together, and the beginning of the kinetic work in the creation of forms and shapes,
by the cross play of the two forces in their combinations of solid with gases.

All this had to happen before the manasa combined and dropped in vibration to prana--and before
the pranic globes were formed and the Light could be manifested to us through them.  It may
be well to read the first chapter of Genesis over and ask forgiveness for our ignorance, from
the writer who records this creation of the pranic globes as the fourth act of creation, and
the creation of the etheric sun and prakritic moon to follow that.  That record is mutilated,
fragmentary;  but the writer of it knew the facts. If we had the full story, instead of a sentence
here and there, taken from an older story not to tell of creation but to hide another tale
for the priest, the writer of Genesis would laugh last.

But let us return to the kinetic skin of energy between Light and the Darkness--the firmament
which God calls Heaven--the battle ground for gravity and apergy, or attraction and repulsion,
or good and evil, or the powers of light and darkness.  This skin is like that of an onion,
thickest at the equator and thinnest at the poles--not only on this earth but in the solar,
alcyonic, and manasic globes.  The equatorial belt, where phenomena are richest in the manasic
globes, we call the Milky Way;  in the solar globe we call it the plane of the ecliptic;  and
on the earth, the tropics.  Modern science has not yet found it in Alcyonic globe--because
it has never thought of looking for it.

This division of the Light from the Darkness was all that was required for evolution on the
manasic globe within the kinetic belt.  This evolution was not confined to the making of a
few alcyonic or pranic globes.  It was (and is) a great and wonderful evolution beyond words
and almost beyond imagination.  It is the Heaven which mankind has longed to see and know.
The writer of Genesis mixed it with the creation of this earth, using earthly metaphors.  Before
finding fault, we should better his language. We have not the words in physics to do it, and
must wait for our metaphysics.  But of one thing we may be sure, that the pranic- alcyonic
globes here and there at the "sea level" of the manasic globe--in what God calls Heaven--amount
to no more on that globe, or in Heaven, than so many balls of thistle-down blown across a meadow
do on this earth of ours.  Everything that can be created in thought must be there.  It is
in thought only, but in thought it is differentiated as sharply as anything in prakriti. The
manasic world, the Heaven of the Bible, is as real as our own world can possibly be;  in fact,
more real, for when ours is resolved back into its final elements, it will be but "the dust
of the ground" of the manasic world.

The pranic globes created in this manasic skin by Sound, or the Logos, or vibration, evolved
in identically the same way--with a central static core and an outer static envelope, of low
and high vibration in prana, creating attraction and repulsion, or gravity and apergy.  The
kinetic skin between, in which these forces play in the pranic world, makes a real, not an
imaginary pranic world, though but a faint reflection of the manasic.  When our father, the
Central Invisible Sun, transfers his attraction to these alcyonic suns, the Light has something
in which to manifest itself, and we "see" this manifesting core and call it Alcyone, and its
manifestation Light;  but light in its last material analysis is but the static mind or thought
vibrating in the three lower notes of the octave.

Chapter Nine

The Dual Man

Within the alcyonic globes of differentiated pranic-manasic atoms the vibration divided them
also into solid-liquid cores and gaseous envelopes, and a kinetic skin of phenomena.  And then
a new world--a world of Life, came into material existence.  All the atoms of thought or manasa,
surrounding each and every pranic atom, and making its molecule of energy, so to speak, were
that particular kind of kinetic manasa ready to change its rate of vibration within an octave,
and the forms prana assumes from the action of thought within the kinetic belt were living
and thinking.  Each pranic globe, which was a small state of product of the manasic, consisted
of two globes in coadunition--two in one.  Each pranic atom was the centre of a manasic molecule
and represented the universe.  All things were two in one, created by harmonic vibration between
them, and existence by the greater strength of the lower notes, or attraction.  It was at once
less and more wonderful than the manasic world--a specialized form of it.

