When they reached the house Nekhludoff left the boys outside and went through the passage into
the hut. The hut was 14 feet long. The bed that stood behind the big stove was not long enough
for a tall person to stretch out on. "And on this very bed," Nekhludoff thought, "Katusha bore
her baby and lay ill afterwards." The greater part of the hut was taken up by a loom, on which
the old woman and her eldest granddaughter were arranging the warp when Nekhludoff came in,
striking his forehead against the low doorway. Two other grandchildren came rushing in after
Nekhludoff, and stopped, holding on to the lintels of the door.

"Whom do you want?" asked the old woman, crossly. She was in a bad temper because she could
not manage to get the warp right, and, besides, carrying on an illicit trade in spirits, she
was always afraid when any stranger came in.

"I am--the owner of the neighbouring estates, and should like to speak to you."

"Dear me; why, it's you, my honey; and I, fool, thought it was just some passer-by. Dear me,
you--it's you, my precious," said the old woman, with simulated tenderness in her voice.

"I should like to speak to you alone," said Nekhludoff, with a glance towards the door, where
the children were standing, and behind them a woman holding a wasted, pale baby, with a sickly
smile on its face, who had a little cap made of different bits of stuff on its head.

"What are you staring at? I'll give it you. Just hand me my crutch," the old woman shouted
to those at the door.

"Shut the door, will you!" The children went away, and the woman closed the door.

"And I was thinking, who's that? And it's 'the master' himself. My jewel, my treasure. Just
think," said the old woman, "where he has deigned to come. Sit down here, your honour," she
said, wiping the seat with her apron. "And I was thinking what devil is it coming in, and it's
your honour, 'the master' himself, the good gentleman, our benefactor. Forgive me, old fool
that I am; I'm getting blind."

Nekhludoff sat down, and the old woman stood in front of him, leaning her cheek on her right
hand, while the left held up the sharp elbow of her right arm.

"Dear me, you have grown old, your honour; and you used to be as fresh as a daisy. And now!
Cares also, I expect?"

"This is what I have come about: Do you remember Katusha Maslova?"

"Katerina? I should think so. Why, she is my niece. How could I help remembering; and the tears
I have shed because of her. Why, I know all about it. Eh, sir, who has not sinned before God?
who has not offended against the Tsar? We know what youth is. You used to be drinking tea and
coffee, so the devil got hold of you. He is strong at times. What's to be done? Now, if you
had chucked her; but no, just see how you rewarded her, gave her a hundred roubles. And she?
What has she done? Had she but listened to me she might have lived all right. I must say the
truth, though she is my niece: that girl's no good. What a good place I found her! She would
not submit, but abused her master. Is it for the likes of us to scold gentlefolk? Well, she
was sent away. And then at the forester's. She might have lived there; but no, she would not."

"I want to know about the child. She was confined at your house, was she not? Where's the child?"

"As to the child, I considered that well at the time. She was so bad I never thought she would
get up again. Well, so I christened the baby quite properly, and we sent it to the Foundlings'.
Why should one let an innocent soul languish when the mother is dying? Others do like this:
they just leave the baby, don't feed it, and it wastes away. But, thinks I, no; I'd rather
take some trouble, and send it to the Foundlings'. There was money enough, so I sent it off."

"Did you not get its registration number from the Foundlings' Hospital?"

"Yes, there was a number, but the baby died," she said. "It died as soon as she brought it there."

"Who is she?"

"That same woman who used to live in Skorodno. She made a business of it. Her name was Malania.
She's dead now. She was a wise woman. What do you think she used to do? They'd bring her a
baby, and she'd keep it and feed it; and she'd feed it until she had enough of them to take
to the Foundlings'. When she had three or four, she'd take them all at once. She had such a
clever arrangement, a sort of big cradle--a double one she could put them in one way or the
other. It had a handle. So she'd put four of them in, feet to feet and the heads apart, so
that they should not knock against each other. And so she took four at once. She'd put some
pap in a rag into their mouths to keep 'em silent, the pets."

"Well, go on."

"Well, she took Katerina's baby in the same way, after keeping it a fortnight, I believe. It
was in her house it began to sicken."

"And was it a fine baby?" Nekhludoff asked.

"Such a baby, that if you wanted a finer you could not find one. Your very image," the old
woman added, with a wink.

"Why did it sicken? Was the food bad?"

"Eh, what food? Only just a pretence of food. Naturally, when it's not one's own child. Only
enough to get it there alive. She said she just managed to get it to Moscow, and there it died.
She brought a certificate--all in order. She was such a wise woman."

That was all Nekhludoff could find out concerning his child.

CHAPTER VI.

REFLECTIONS OF A LANDLORD.

Again striking his head against both doors, Nekhludoff went out into the street, where the
pink and the white boys were waiting for him. A few newcomers were standing with them. Among
the women, of whom several had babies in their arms, was the thin woman with the baby who had
the patchwork cap on its head. She held lightly in her arms the bloodless infant, who kept
strangely smiling all over its wizened little face, and continually moving its crooked thumbs.

Nekhludoff knew the smile to be one of suffering. He asked who the woman was.

"It is that very Anisia I told you about," said the elder boy.

Nekhludoff turned to Anisia.

"How do you live?" he asked. "By what means do you gain your livelihood?"

"How do I live? I go begging," said Anisia, and began to cry.

Nekhludoff took out his pocket-book, and gave the woman a 10-rouble note. He had not had time
to take two steps before another woman with a baby caught him up, then an old woman, then another
young one. All of them spoke of their poverty, and asked for help. Nekhludoff gave them the
60 roubles--all in small notes--which he had with him, and, terribly sad at heart, turned home,
i.e., to the foreman's house.

The foreman met Nekhludoff with a smile, and informed him that the peasants would come to the
meeting in the evening. Nekhludoff thanked him, and went straight into the garden to stroll
along the paths strewn over with the petals of apple-blossom and overgrown with weeds, and
to think over all he had seen.

At first all was quiet, but soon Nekhludoff heard from behind the foreman's house two angry
women's voices interrupting each other, and now and then the voice of the ever-smiling foreman.
Nekhludoff listened.

"My strength's at an end. What are you about, dragging the very cross [those baptized in the
Russo-Greek Church always wear a cross round their necks] off my neck," said an angry woman's
voice.

"But she only got in for a moment," said another voice. "Give it her back, I tell you. Why
do you torment the beast, and the children, too, who want their milk?"

"Pay, then, or work it off," said the foreman's voice.

Nekhludoff left the garden and entered the porch, near which stood two dishevelled women--one
of them pregnant and evidently near her time. On one of the steps of the porch, with his hands
in the pockets of his holland coat, stood the foreman. When they saw the master, the women
were silent, and began arranging the kerchiefs on their heads, and the foreman took his hands
out of his pockets and began to smile.

This is what had happened. From the foreman's words, it seemed that the peasants were in the
habit of letting their calves and even their cows into the meadow belonging to the estate.
Two cows belonging to the families of these two women were found in the meadow, and driven
into the yard. The foreman demanded from the women 30 copecks for each cow or two days' work.
The women, however, maintained that the cows had got into the meadow of their own accord; that
they had no money, and asked that the cows, which had stood in the blazing sun since morning
without food, piteously lowing, should be returned to them, even if it had to be on the understanding
that the price should be worked off later on.

"How often have I not begged of you," said the smiling foreman, looking back at Nekhludoff
as if calling upon him to be a witness, "if you drive your cattle home at noon, that you should
have an eye on them?"

"I only ran to my little one for a bit, and they got away."

"Don't run away when you have undertaken to watch the cows."

"And who's to feed the little one? You'd not give him the breast, I suppose?" said the other
woman. "Now, if they had really damaged the meadow, one would not take it so much to heart;
but they only strayed in a moment."

"All the meadows are damaged," the foreman said, turning to Nekhludoff. "If I exact no penalty
there will be no hay."

"There, now, don't go sinning like that; my cows have never been caught there before," shouted
the pregnant woman.

"Now that one has been caught, pay up or work it off."

"All right, I'll work it off; only let me have the cow now, don't torture her with hunger,"
she cried, angrily. "As it is, I have no rest day or night. Mother-in-law is ill, husband taken
to drink; I'm all alone to do all the work, and my strength's at an end. I wish you'd choke,
you and your working it off."

Nekhludoff asked the foreman to let the women take the cows, and went back into the garden
to go on thinking out his problem, but there was nothing more to think about.

Everything seemed so clear to him now that he could not stop wondering how it was that everybody
did not see it, and that he himself had for such a long while not seen what was so clearly
evident. The people were dying out, and had got used to the dying-out process, and had formed
habits of life adapted to this process: there was the great mortality among the children, the
over-working of the women, the under-feeding, especially of the aged. And so gradually had
the people come to this condition that they did not realise the full horrors of it, and did
not complain. Therefore, we consider their condition natural and as it should be. Now it seemed
as clear as daylight that the chief cause of the people's great want was one that they themselves
knew and always pointed out, i.e., that the land which alone could feed them had been taken
from them by the landlords.

And how evident it was that the children and the aged died because they had no milk, and they
had no milk because there was no pasture land, and no land to grow corn or make hay on. It
was quite evident that all the misery of the people or, at least by far the greater part of
it, was caused by the fact that the land which should feed them was not in their hands, but
in the hands of those who, profiting by their rights to the land, live by the work of these
people. The land so much needed by men was tilled by these people, who were on the verge of
starvation, so that the corn might be sold abroad and the owners of the land might buy themselves
hats and canes, and carriages and bronzes, etc. He understood this as clearly as he understood
that horses when they have eaten all the grass in the inclosure where they are kept will have
to grow thin and starve unless they are put where they can get food off other land.

This was terrible, and must not go on. Means must be found to alter it, or at least not to
take part in it. "And I will find them," he thought, as he walked up and down the path under
the birch trees.

In scientific circles, Government institutions, and in the papers we talk about the causes
of the poverty among the people and the means of ameliorating their condition; but we do not
talk of the only sure means which would certainly lighten their condition, i.e., giving back
to them the land they need so much.

Henry George's fundamental position recurred vividly to his mind and how he had once been carried
away by it, and he was surprised that he could have forgotten it. The earth cannot be any one's
property; it cannot be bought or sold any more than water, air, or sunshine. All have an equal
right to the advantages it gives to men. And now he knew why he had felt ashamed to remember
the transaction at Kousminski. He had been deceiving himself. He knew that no man could have
a right to own land, yet he had accepted this right as his, and had given the peasants something
which, in the depth of his heart, he knew he had no right to. Now he would not act in this
way, and would alter the arrangement in Kousminski also. And he formed a project in his mind
to let the land to the peasants, and to acknowledge the rent they paid for it to be their property,
to be kept to pay the taxes and for communal uses. This was, of course, not the single-tax
system, still it was as near an approach to it as could be had under existing circumstances.
His chief consideration, however, was that in this way he would no longer profit by the possession
of landed property.

When he returned to the house the foreman, with a specially pleasant smile, asked him if he
would not have his dinner now, expressing the fear that the feast his wife was preparing, with
the help of the girl with the earrings, might be overdone.

The table was covered with a coarse, unbleached cloth and an embroidered towel was laid on
it in lieu of a napkin. A vieux-saxe soup tureen with a broken handle stood on the table, full
of potato soup, the stock made of the fowl that had put out and drawn in his black leg, and
was now cut, or rather chopped, in pieces, which were here and there covered with hairs. After
the soup more of the same fowl with the hairs was served roasted, and then curd pasties, very
greasy, and with a great deal of sugar. Little appetising as all this was, Nekhludoff hardly
noticed what he was eating; he was occupied with the thought which had in a moment dispersed
the sadness with which he had returned from the village.

The foreman's wife kept looking in at the door, whilst the frightened maid with the earrings
brought in the dishes; and the foreman smiled more and more joyfully, priding himself on his
wife's culinary skill. After dinner, Nekhludoff succeeded, with some trouble, in making the
foreman sit down. In order to revise his own thoughts, and to express them to some one, he
explained his project of letting the land to the peasants, and asked the foreman for his opinion.
The foreman, smiling as if he had thought all this himself long ago, and was very pleased to
hear it, did not really understand it at all. This was not because Nekhludoff did not express
himself clearly, but because according to this project it turned out that Nekhludoff was giving
up his own profit for the profit of others, and the thought that every one is only concerned
about his own profit, to the harm of others, was so deeply rooted in the foreman's conceptions
that he imagined he did not understand something when Nekhludoff said that all the income from
the land must be placed to form the communal capital of the peasants.

"Oh, I see; then you, of course, will receive the percentages from that capital," said the
foreman, brightening up.

"Dear me! no. Don't you see, I am giving up the land altogether."

"But then you will not get any income," said the foreman, smiling no longer. 

With the constant whanging of shells through ours and adjacent buildings
and the moaning of the wounded lying all about me, sleep or rest was
impossible.

It was a night too dreadful to think of, and makes me shudder again as I write. We remained
in the city the next day, Sunday, and I rejoined our regiment, which, with other troops, was lying
under the shelter of the river-bank. Officers were getting their men together as far as possible
and bringing order out of chaos. We had Sunday about two hundred for duty out of three hundred
and fifty taken into the battle. On Monday, the 15th, we who were wounded were told to make
our way across the river back to our old camps as best we could.

I was now very weak, and my head and leg were very sore. The latter gave me much trouble in walking, nevertheless
there was a three-mile tramp before us. Lieutenant Musselman, also
wounded, went with me on this weary tramp.

We did not reach camp that night, and so had to find shelter at a farm-house, already full
of straggling and wounded soldiers. The owner was a widow, living with a grown-up daughter, and
was a bitter rebel, although professing Union sentiments whilst our army was there. She was,
of course, greatly annoyed by the presence of these soldiers, most of whom were eating up her
provisions without paying for them. Some of them were "bummers," who had run away from the
battle and had persuaded her to feed and shelter them for the protection
they professed to afford her.

She was in great wrath when we reached there and peremptorily forbade
us entering.

But I told her firmly that we were wounded men and must have shelter;
that I would willingly pay for accommodations, but, permission or
not, the latter we must have.



Nekhludoff made an effort, and began his speech by telling the peasants of his intention to
give up his land to them altogether. The peasants were silent, and the expression on their
faces did not undergo any change.

"Because I hold," said Nekhludoff, "and believe that every one has a right to the use of the land."

"That's certain. That's so, exactly," said several voices.

Nekhludoff went on to say that the revenue from the land ought to be divided among all, and
that he would therefore suggest that they should rent the land at a price fixed by themselves,
the rent to form a communal fund for their own use. Words of approval and agreement were still
to be heard, but the serious faces of the peasants grew still more serious, and the eyes that
had been fixed on the gentleman dropped, as if they were unwilling to put him to shame by letting
him see that every one had understood his trick, and that no one would be deceived by him.

Nekhludoff spoke clearly, and the peasants were intelligent, but they did not and could not
understand him, for the same reason that the foreman had so long been unable to understand him.

They were fully convinced that it is natural for every man to consider his own interest. The
experience of many generations had proved to them that the landlords always considered their
own interest to the detriment of the peasants. Therefore, if a landlord called them to a meeting
and made them some kind of a new offer, it could evidently only be in order to swindle them
more cunningly than before.

"Well, then, what are you willing to rent the land at?" asked Nekhludoff.

"How can we fix a price? We cannot do it. The land is yours, and the power is in your hands,"
answered some voices from among the crowd.

"Oh, not at all. You will yourselves have the use of the money for communal purposes."

"We cannot do it; the commune is one thing, and this is another."

"Don't you understand?" said the foreman, with a smile (he had followed Nekhludoff to the meeting),
"the Prince is letting the land to you for money, and is giving you the money back to form
a capital for the commune."

"We understand very well," said a cross, toothless old man, without raising his eyes. "Something
like a bank; we should have to pay at a fixed time. We do not wish it; it is hard enough as
it is, and that would ruin us completely."

"That's no go. We prefer to go on the old way," began several dissatisfied, and even rude, voices.

The refusals grew very vehement when Nekhludoff mentioned that he would draw up an agreement
which would have to be signed by him and by them.

"Why sign? We shall go on working as we have done hitherto. What is all this for? We are ignorant
men."

"We can't agree, because this sort of thing is not what we have been used to. As it was, so
let it continue to be. Only the seeds we should like to withdraw."

This meant that under the present arrangement the seeds had to be provided by the peasants,
and they wanted the landlord to provide them.

"Then am I to understand that you refuse to accept the land?" Nekhludoff asked, addressing
a middle-aged, barefooted peasant, with a tattered coat, and a bright look on his face, who
was holding his worn cap with his left hand, in a peculiarly straight position, in the same
way soldiers hold theirs when commanded to take them off.

"Just so," said this peasant, who had evidently not yet rid himself of the military hypnotism
he had been subjected to while serving his time.

"It means that you have sufficient land," said Nekhludoff.

"No, sir, we have not," said the ex-soldier, with an artificially pleased look, carefully holding
his tattered cap in front of him, as if offering it to any one who liked to make use of it.

"Well, anyhow, you'd better think over what I have said." Nekhludoff spoke with surprise, and
again repeated his offer.

"We have no need to think about it; as we have said, so it will be," angrily muttered the morose,
toothless old man.

"I shall remain here another day, and if you change your minds, send to let me know."

The peasants gave no answer.

So Nekhludoff did not succeed in arriving at any result from this interview.

"If I might make a remark, Prince," said the foreman, when they got home, "you will never come
to any agreement with them; they are so obstinate. At a meeting these people just stick in
one place, and there is no moving them. It is because they are frightened of everything. Why,
these very peasants--say that white-haired one, or the dark one, who were refusing, are intelligent
peasants. When one of them comes to the office and one makes him sit down to cup of tea it's
like in the Palace of Wisdom--he is quite diplomatist," said the foreman, smiling; "he will
consider everything rightly. At a meeting it's a different man--he keeps repeating one and
the same . . ."

"Well, could not some of the more intelligent men be asked to come here?" said Nekhludoff.
"I would carefully explain it to them."

"That can be done," said the smiling foreman.

"Well, then, would you mind calling them here to-morrow?"

"Oh, certainly I will," said the foreman, and smiled still more joyfully. "I shall call them
to-morrow."

"Just hear him; he's not artful, not he," said a blackhaired peasant, with an unkempt beard,
as he sat jolting from side to side on a well-fed mare, addressing an old man in a torn coat
who rode by his side. The two men were driving a herd of the peasants' horses to graze in the
night, alongside the highroad and secretly, in the landlord's forest.

"Give you the land for nothing--you need only sign--have they not done the likes of us often
enough? No, my friend, none of your humbug. Nowadays we have a little sense," he added, and
began shouting at a colt that had strayed.

He stopped his horse and looked round, but the colt had not remained behind; it had gone into
the meadow by the roadside. "Bother that son of a Turk; he's taken to getting into the landowner's
meadows," said the dark peasant with the unkempt beard, hearing the cracking of the sorrel
stalks that the neighing colt was galloping over as he came running back from the scented meadow.

"Do you hear the cracking? We'll have to send the women folk to weed the meadow when there's
a holiday," said the thin peasant with the torn coat, "or else we'll blunt our scythes."

"Sign," he says. The unkempt man continued giving his opinion of the landlord's speech. "'Sign,'
indeed, and let him swallow you up."

"That's certain," answered the old man. And then they were silent, and the tramping of the
horses' feet along the highroad was the only sound to be heard.

CHAPTER VIII.

GOD'S PEACE IN THE HEART.

When Nekhludoff returned he found that the office had been arranged as a bedroom for him. A
high bedstead, with a feather bed and two large pillows, had been placed in the room. The bed
was covered with a dark red doublebedded silk quilt, which was elaborately and finely quilted,
and very stiff. It evidently belonged to the trousseau of the foreman's wife. The foreman offered
Nekhludoff the remains of the dinner, which the latter refused, and, excusing himself for the
poorness of the fare and the accommodation, he left Nekhludoff alone.

The peasants' refusal did not at all bother Nekhludoff. On the contrary, though at Kousminski
his offer had been accepted and he had even been thanked for it, and here he was met with suspicion
and even enmity, he felt contented and joyful.

It was close and dirty in the office. Nekhludoff went out into the yard, and was going into
the garden, but he remembered: that night, the window of the maid-servant's room, the side
porch, and he felt uncomfortable, and did not like to pass the spot desecrated by guilty memories.
He sat down on the doorstep, and breathing in the warm air, balmy with the strong scent of
fresh birch leaves, he sat for a long time looking into the dark garden and listening to the
mill, the nightingales, and some other bird that whistled monotonously in the bush close by.
The light disappeared from the foreman's window; in the cast, behind the barn, appeared the
light of the rising moon, and sheet lightning began to light up the dilapidated house, and
the blooming, over-grown garden more and more frequently. It began to thunder in the distance,
and a black cloud spread over one-third of the sky. The nightingales and the other birds were
silent. Above the murmur of the water from the mill came the cackling of geese, and then in
the village and in the foreman's yard the first cocks began to crow earlier than usual, as
they do on warm, thundery nights. There is a saying that if the cocks crow early the night
will be a merry one. For Nekhludoff the night was more than merry; it was a happy, joyful night.
Imagination renewed the impressions of that happy summer which he had spent here as an innocent
lad, and he felt himself as he had been not only at that but at all the best moments of his
life. He not only remembered but felt as he had felt when, at the age of 14, he prayed that
God would show him the truth; or when as a child he had wept on his mother's lap, when parting
from her, and promising to be always good, and never give her pain; he felt as he did when
he and Nikolenka Irtenieff resolved always to support each other in living a good life and
to try to make everybody happy.

He remembered how he had been tempted in Kousminski, so that he had begun to regret the house
and the forest and the farm and the land, and he asked himself if he regretted them now, and
it even seemed strange to think that he could regret them. ...

I was rocked in the hot golden air. I slept heavily, deeply, without dreams....

I was awakened by a cold fierce apprehension of terror. I sat up, stared slowly around me with
the sure, certain conviction that some dreadful thing had occurred.
The orchard was as it had been--the sun, lower now, shone through
the green branches. All was still and even, as I listened I heard
the sharp crack of the ball upon the bat breaking the evening air.
My heart had simply ceased to beat.
And then he suddenly remembered the prison, the shaved heads, the cells, the disgusting smells,
the chains, and, by the side of it all, the madly lavish city lift of the rich, himself included.

The bright moon, now almost full, rose above the barn. Dark shadows fell across the yard, and
the iron roof of the ruined house shone bright. As if unwilling to waste this light, the nightingales
again began their trills.

Nekhludoff called to mind how he had begun to consider his life in the garden of Kousminski
when deciding what he was going to do, and remembered how confused he had become, how he could
not arrive at any decision, how many difficulties each question had presented. He asked himself
these questions now, and was surprised how simple it all was. It was simple because he was
not thinking now of what would be the results for himself, but only thought of what he had
to do. And, strange to say, what he had to do for himself he could not decide, but what he
had to do for others he knew without any doubt. He had no doubt that he must not leave Katusha,
but go on helping her. He had no doubt that he must study, investigate, clear up, understand
all this business concerning judgment and punishment, which he felt he saw differently to other
people. What would result from it all he did not know, but he knew for certain that he must
do it. And this firm assurance gave him joy.

The black cloud had spread all over the sky; the lightning flashed vividly across the yard
and the old house with its tumble-down porches, the thunder growled overhead. All the birds
were silent, but the leaves rustled and the wind reached the step where Nekhludoff stood and
played with his hair. One drop came down, then another; then they came drumming on the dock
leaves and on the iron of the roof, and all the air was filled by a bright flash, and before
Nekhludoff could count three a fearful crash sounded over head and spread pealing all over the sky.

Nekhludoff went in.

"Yes, yes," he thought. "The work that our life accomplishes, the whole of this work, the meaning
of it is not, nor can be, intelligible to me. What were my aunts for? Why did Nikolenka Irtenieff
die? Why am I living? What was Katusha for? And my madness? Why that war? Why my subsequent
lawless life? To understand it, to understand the whole of the Master's will is not in my power.
But to do His will, that is written down in my conscience, is in my power; that I know for
certain. And when I am fulfilling it I have sureness and peace."

The rain came down in torrents and rushed from the roof into a tub beneath; the lightning lit
up the house and yard less frequently. Nekhludoff went into his room, undressed, and lay down,
not without fear of the bugs, whose presence the dirty, torn wall-papers made him suspect.

"Yes, to feel one's self not the master but a servant," he thought, and rejoiced at the thought.
His fears were not vain. Hardly had he put out his candle when the vermin attacked and stung
him. "To give up the land and go to Siberia. Fleas, bugs, dirt! Ah, well; if it must be borne,
I shall bear it." But, in spite of the best of intentions, he could not bear it, and sat down
by the open window and gazed with admiration at the retreating clouds and the reappearing moon.

CHAPTER IX.

THE LAND SETTLEMENT.

