"Yes, unless you are bought by one of those old Roman officers, who, too much disabled to follow
a life of war, wish to found military colonies here, in accordance with the orders of Caesar."

"And thus rob us of our lands!"

"Of course. I hope to get out of you twenty-five or thirty gold sous, at least, and more if
you are of an occupation easy to dispose of, such as a blacksmith, carpenter, mason, goldsmith,
or some other good trade. It is in order to find that out that I am questioning you, so as
to write it in my bill of sale. So, let us see:" (and the "horse-dealer" took up his tablet
and began writing with his stylus) "Your name? Bull. Race, Breton Gaul. I can see that at a
glance. I am a connoisseur. I would not take a Breton for a Bourgignon, nor a Poitevin for
an Auvergnat. I sold lots of Auvergnats last year, after the battle of Puy. Your age?"

"Twenty-nine."

"Age, twenty-nine," he wrote on his tablet. "Your occupation?"

"Laborer."

"Laborer," repeated the "horse-dealer" in a surprised and injured tone, scratching his ear
with his stylus. "You are nothing but a laborer? You have no other profession?"

"I am a soldier also."

"Oh, a soldier. He who wears the iron collar has no more to do with lance or sword. So then,"
added the "horse-dealer," reading from his tablet with a sigh:

"No. 7. Bull; race, Breton Gaul; of great strength and very great height; aged twenty-nine
years; excellent laborer." Then he said:

"Your character?"

"My character?"

"Yes, what is it? rebellious or docile? open or sly? violent or peaceable? gay or moody? The
buyers always inquire as to the character of the slave they are buying, and although one may
not be compelled to answer them, it is a bad business to deceive them. Let us see, friend Bull,
what is your character? In your own interest, be truthful. The master who buys you will sooner
or later know the truth, and will make you pay more dearly for your lie than I would."

"Then write upon your tablet: 'The draft-bull loves servitude, cherishes slavery, and licks
the hand that strikes him.'"

"You are joking. The Gallic race love service? As well say that the eagle or the falcon loves
his cage."

"Then write that when his strength has come back, the Bull at the first chance will break his
yoke, gore his master, and fly to the woods to live in freedom."

"There is more truth in that. Those brutes of keepers who beat you told me that at the first
touch of the lash you gave a terrible jump the length of your chain. But, you see, friend Bull,
if I offer you to the purchasers with the dangerous account which you give, I shall find few
customers. An honest merchant should not boast his merchandise too much, no more should he
underestimate it. So I shall announce your character as follows." And he wrote:

"Of a violent character, sulky, because of his not being accustomed to slavery, for he is still
green; but he can be broken in by using at different times gentleness, severity and chastisement."

"Go over it again."

"Over what?"

"The description I am to be sold under."

"You are right, my son. We must make sure that the description sounds well to the ear.

"That is what is left of a free and proud man whose only crime is having defended his country
against Caesar!" I cried bitterly. "And yet I did not kill that same Caesar, who has reduced
our people to slavery and is now about to divide among his soldiers the lands of our fathers,
I did not kill him when I was making off with him on my horse!"

"You, my fine Bull, you took great Caesar prisoner?" asked the "horse-dealer" mockingly. "It's
too bad I can't proclaim that at the auction. It would make a rare slave of you."

I reproached myself for having uttered before that trafficker in human flesh words which resembled
a regret or a complaint. Coming back to my first thought, which made me endure patiently the
loquacity of the man, I said to him:

"When you picked me up where I fell on the battlefield, did you see hard by a war chariot harnessed
to four black bulls, with a woman and two children hanging from the pole?"

"Did I see them? Did I see them!" exclaimed the "horse-dealer" with a mournful sigh. "Ah, what
excellent goods lost! We counted in that chariot eleven young women and girls, all beautiful--oh,
beautiful!--worth at least forty or fifty gold sous apiece--but dead. They had all killed themselves.
They were no good to anyone."

"And in the chariot were there no women nor children still alive?"

"Women? No,--alas, no. Not one, to the great loss of the Roman soldiers and myself. But of
children, there were, I believe, two or three who had survived the death which those fierce
Gallic women, furious as lionesses, wished to inflict upon them."

"And where are they?" I exclaimed, thinking of my son and daughter, who were, perhaps, among
them, "where are those children? Answer! Answer!"

"I told you, my Bull, that I buy only wounded persons; one of my fellows bought the lot of
children, and also some other little ones, for they picked up some alive from the other chariots.
But what does it matter to you whether or not there are children to sell?"

"Because I had a son and a daughter in that chariot," I answered, my heart bursting.

"And how old were they?"

"The girl was eight, the boy nine."

"And your wife?"

"If none of those eleven women found in the chariot were living, my wife is dead."

"Isn't that too bad--too bad! Your wife had already borne you two children; you four would
have made a fine deal. Ah, what a lost treasure!"

I repressed a gesture of impotent anger at the scoundrel, and answered:

"Yes, they would have billed us as the Bull and the Heifer!"

"Surely! And since Caesar is going to distribute much of your depopulated country among his
veterans, those who have no reserve prisoners will be under the necessity of buying slaves
to cultivate and re-people their parcels of land. You are of that strong rustic race, and consequently
I have hopes of getting a good price for you from some new colonist."

"Listen to me. I would rather know that my son and daughter were dead, like their mother, than
have them saved to be slaves. Nevertheless, since there were found near the chariot some children
who had survived--a thing that astonishes me, since the women of Gaul always strike with a
firm and sure hand when it is a case of snatching their race from shame--it is possible that
my children may be among those found. How can I find out?"

"What good will finding out do you?"

"I will at least have with me my two children."

The "horse-dealer" began to laugh, shrugged his shoulders, and answered:

"Then you didn't hear me? By Jupiter, I advise you not to be deaf--you would be returned to
me. I told you that I neither bought nor sold children."

"What does that matter to me?"

"Among a hundred purchasers of slaves for farm-hands, there would not be ten so foolish as
to buy a man and his two children, without their mother. So that to offer you for sale with
two brats, if they are still living, would make me lose half your value by burdening your purchaser
with two useless mouths. Do you catch on; thick-head? No, for you look at me with a ferocious
and stupefied air. I repeat that if I had been obliged to buy the two children in one lot with
you, or even if they had been given to me to boot, in the market, like old Pierce-Skin, my
first care would have been to have put you up for sale without them. Do you understand at last,
double and triple block that you are?"

At last I did understand; heretofore I had not dreamed of such refinement of torture in slavery.
To think that my two children, if alive, might be sold, I know not where, or to whom, and taken
far from me! I had not thought it possible. My heart swelled with grief. So great was my suffering
that I almost supplicated the "horse-dealer." I said to him:

"You are deceiving me. What can my children do? Who would wish to buy such poor little things,
so young? useless mouths--as you said yourself?"

"Oh, those who carry on the trade in children have a separate and assured patronage, especially
if the children are favored with pretty features. Are your young ones good-looking?"

"Yes," I answered in spite of myself. Before me was the vision of the charming fair faces of
my little Sylvest and Syomara, who looked as much alike as twins and whom I had embraced a
moment before the battle of Vannes. "Oh yes, they were good-looking. They were like their mother,
who was so beautiful--!"

"If they had good looks, be easy, my fine Bull. They will be easy to dispose of. The dealers
in children have for their especial patrons the decrepit and surfeited Roman Senators, who
love fresh fruits. By the way, they have announced the near arrival of the patrician Trymalcion,
a very rich and very noble man, an old and very capricious expert. He is traveling through
the Roman colonies of southern Gaul, and is expected here, they say, on his galley which is
as splendid as a palace. No doubt he would like to take back to Italy some graceful specimens
of Gallic brats. If your children are pretty, their fate is assured, for the patrician Trymalcion
is one of my partner's patrician customers."[19]

At first I listened to the "horse-dealer," without catching his meaning. But I was presently
seized with a vertigo of horror at the idea that my children, who might unfortunately have
escaped the death which their far-sighted mother had intended for them, might be carried to
Italy to fulfill such a monstrous destiny. I felt neither anger nor fury, but a grief so great,
and a fear so terrible, that I kneeled on the straw, and in spite of my manacles, stretched
my pleading hands toward the "horse-dealer." Not finding words to utter my feelings, I wept,
kneeling.

The "horse-dealer" looked at me in great surprise, and said:

"Well, well! What is it, my fine Bull? What ails you?"

"My children!" was all I could say, for sobs choked me. "My children! if they are living!"

"Your children?"

"What you said--the fate that awaits them--if they are sold to those men--"

"How? Their fate causes you alarm?"

"Hesus! Hesus!" I exclaimed, calling on the god in my lamentation. "It is horrible!"

"Are you going crazy?" demanded the "horse-dealer." "And what is there so horrible in the fate
which awaits your children? Ah, what barbarians you are in Gaul, indeed. But, know: there is
no life easier nor more flowery than that of these little flute-players and dancers with which
these rich old fellows amuse themselves. If you could see them, the little rogues, their foreheads
crowned with roses, their flowery robes spangled with gold, their rich earrings adorning their
heads. And the little girls, if you could see them with their tunics and--"

I could contain myself no longer. A bloody mist passed before my eyes. Furiously and desperately
I leapt on the vile fellow. But my chain again tightening sharply, I stumbled and fell back
on the straw. I looked around me--not a stick nor a stone. Then, crazed with rage, I doubled
upon my chain, and gnawed at it like a wild animal.

"What a brute of a Gaul!" exclaimed the "horse-dealer," shrugging his shoulders, and keeping
well out of reach. "There he is, roaring and jumping and grinding at his chain like a staked
wolf, and all because he has been told that his children, if they are pretty, are to live in
the midst of wealth, ease and pleasure! What would it have been, then, fool that you are, if
they were ugly or deformed? Do you know to whom they would have been sold? They would have
been sold to those rich lords, who are so curious to read the future in the palpitating entrails
of children freshly slaughtered for divination."[20]

"Oh, Hesus!" I cried, filled with hope at the thought, "let it be so with mine, despite their
beauty! Oh, death for them! Only let them enter the other world in their innocence, and live
near their chaste mother." I could no longer hold back my tears.

"Friend Bull," began the "horse-dealer" in a dissatisfied tone, "I was not a bit mistaken in
putting you down in my tablet as violent and hot-headed. But I fear lest you have a fault worse
than these--I mean a tendency towards tears. I have seen sullen slaves melt away like the snows
of winter under a spring sun, dry up like parchment, and cause great loss to their owners by
their pitiful appearance. So, look out for yourself. There remain but fifteen days before the
auction at which you are to be sold. It is a short while to restore you to your natural fleshiness,
to give you a fresh and rested complexion, a sleek and supple skin, in short, all those signs
of vigor and health which allure the experts, jealous of possessing a sound and robust slave.
To obtain this result, I wish to spare nothing, neither good food, nor care, nor any of those
little artifices known to us to make our merchandise show off to advantage. On your part you
must second my efforts. But if, on the contrary, you do not get over your fits of anger, if
you begin to weep, if you begin to make yourself miserable, to waste away, so to speak, vainly
dreaming of your children, instead of affording me honor and profit by your good figure, as
a good slave should who is jealous of his master's interests,--beware, friend Bull, beware!
I am not a novice in my business. I have carried it on for many years and in many lands. I
have subdued more intractable fellows than you. I have made Sardinians docile, and Sarmatians
as gentle as lambs, so you can judge of my skill.[21] Therefore, believe me, do not expect
yourself to cause me harm by pining away. I am very mild, very gentle. I am not at all fond
of chastisements; often they leave marks which lower a slave's value. Nevertheless, if you
oblige me to, you will make the acquaintance of the jail for recalcitrants. Consider that,
friend Bull. It will soon be meal-time; the physician says that you can now be put upon a substantial
diet. You will be brought boiled chicken, oatmeal wet with gravy of roast sheep, good bread,
and some good wine and water. I shall know whether you have eaten with a good appetite and
in a manner to recuperate your strength, instead of losing it in weeping. So then, eat; it
is the only way of gaining my favor. Eat plenty, eat often--I'll see that you have it. You
will never eat too much to please me, for you are far from being well-fed, and that's what
you must be, well-fed, before fifteen days, the time of the auction. I leave you to these reflections;
pray the gods that they improve you. If not--oh, if not, I weep for you, friend Bull."

So saying the "horse-dealer" shut the heavy door of the room behind him, leaving me chained within.

CHAPTER X.

THE LAST CALL TO ARMS.

But for my uncertainty concerning the fate of my children, immediately upon the "horse-dealer's"
departure I would have killed myself by butting my head against the wall of my prison, or by
refusing all nourishment. Many Gauls had thus escaped the doom of slavery. But I felt that
I should not die before doing what I could to snatch them from the destiny which menaced them.

I examined my room to see whether, my strength once restored, there was any chance for escape.
Three sides of the room were solid wall, the other was a thick partition re-enforced with beams,
between two of which opened the door which was always carefully bolted without. A bar of iron
crossed the window, leaving an opening too narrow to give me passage. I examined my chain,
and the rings, one of which was riveted to my leg, the other to one of the cross-bars of the
bed. It was impossible for me to unchain myself, even at my greatest strength. I then thought
of a plan, a trick, to put myself in the good graces of the "horse-dealer," so as to obtain
from him information of my little Sylvest and Syomara. With that end in view, it would not
do to repine, to appear sad or afraid of the lot reserved for the children. I feared I might
not be able to carry out the role, for I came of a race unaccustomed to deceit and lying. The
Gauls either triumphed or died.

On the evening of that same day when, regaining consciousness, I had become aware of my slavery,
I witnessed a spectacle of terrible grandeur. It raised my courage. I could no longer despair
for the safety and liberty of Gaul. The night was about to fall, when I heard the tramping
of several troops of cavalry arriving at a walk in the great public square of Vannes, which
I could see from the narrow window of my prison. I looked out, and beheld the following scene.

Two cohorts of Roman infantry, and one of cavalry, both in battle array, surrounded a vacant
space, in the middle of which rose a large scaffold of timber. On the platform was a heavy
block, such as is used for chopping meat on. Beside the block stood a Moor of gigantic stature
and bronzed of color. His arms and legs were bare, his hair was bound with a scarlet band;
he wore a coat and a pair of short trousers of tanned skin, splashed here and there with dark
red; in his hand was an axe.

In the distance sounded the long clarions of the Romans, playing a funeral march. The sound
drew nearer. One of the cohorts that were drawn up on the square opened its ranks, forming
a double row. Through this lane the clarioneers entered. They preceded a troop of steel-clad
legionaries. After the troop came the prisoners taken in the Gallic army, tied two and two.
Then came the women and children, also in bonds. More than two stone's throws separated me
from these captives. At such a distance I could not distinguish their features, try as I might.
Nevertheless, my little son and daughter might be among them. The prisoners, of all ages and
sexes, closed in by the two rows of soldiers, were stationed at the foot of the platform. Still
more troops marched into the square; after them, five and twenty captives were led in, in single
file, but not chained. I recognized them by their free and haughty pace. They were the chiefs
and elders of the town and tribe of Vannes, all white-haired fathers.[22] Among them, marching
last, I distinguished two druids and a bard of the college of the forest of Karnak, marked,
the first by their long white robes, the second by his tunic striped with purple. Then appeared
more Roman infantry; finally, between two escorts of white-robed Numidian cavalry, Caesar,
on horse-back, in the midst of his officers. I recognized the scourge of Gaul by his armor,
which was the same he wore when, aided by my brother Mikael the armorer, I was carrying him
off in full panoply on my horse. Oh, how at the sight of the man I cursed anew my stupid astonishment,
that so unfortunately proved the safety of my country's butcher.

Caesar drew rein a short distance from the platform, and made a sign with his hand. Immediately
the twenty-five prisoners, the bard and druids passing last, mounted with calm tread the steps
of the scaffold. One by one they placed their white heads on the block, and each one of the
venerable heads, stricken off by the axe of the Moor, rolled at the feet of the bound captives.

The bard and the two druids were the only ones left. The three rushed together in a final embrace,
they raised their faces and their hands towards heaven, and intoned in a loud voice the song
of Hena, the virgin of the isle of Sen, uttered at the hour of her voluntary sacrifice on the
rocks of Karnak, that song which had been the signal for the rising of Brittany against the Romans:

"Hesus, Hesus! By the blood which is about to flow, clemency for Gaul!"

"Gauls, by the blood which is about to flow, victory to our arms!"

And the bard added:

"The Chief of the Hundred Valleys is safe. There is hope for our arms!"

Thereupon all the Gallic captives, men, women, and children present at the execution, all together
repeated the last words of the druids, acclaiming them with so powerful a voice that the air
shook even in my prison. After that supreme chant, the three placed their sacred heads in turn
upon the block, and went the same way as the elders of Vannes. As the bard's and the druids'
heads rolled upon the scaffold, all the captives took up the war-cry of the druids--"Strike
the Roman! Strike at the head!"--in a voice so fierce and menacing that the legionaries, lowering
their lances, hurriedly surrounded the unarmed and chained prisoners in a circle of iron, bristling
with lance heads. But that mighty voice of their brothers and sisters had reached the wounded
men shut up in the slave-shed, and all, myself included, answered the refrain:

"Strike the Roman! You may learn from this act of George, how to do some good to poor
heathen children.

You should be willing to deny yourselves some pleasures in order that you may benefit others. And
if you do good out of a pure motive you will be blessed in the deed.

THE JEW AND HIS DAUGHTER.

A Jew came to this country from London, many years ago, and brought
with him all his property.

He had a lovely daughter of seventeen; with her he settled in a charming
retreat on the fruitful banks of the Ohio, in the Western part of
Virginia.

He had buried his wife before he left Europe, and he knew no comfort
but the company of his beloved daughter.

She possessed an amiable disposition, and was well educated; she could speak several languages,
and her manners pleased all who knew her. Being a Jew, he brought up his daughter in the strictest
principles of his faith.

It was not long after that his daughter was taken sick. The rose faded from her cheek, her strength
failed, and it was certain that she could not live long. Her father was deeply affected. He
tried to talk with her, but could seldom speak without weeping. He spared no expense to have
her get well. One day he was walking in the wood near his house when he was sent for by his
dying daughter. With a heavy heart he entered the door of her room, and he saw that he was
now to take the last farewell of his daughter.

"My father," said the child, "do you love me?" "Yes," he replied, "you know that I love you."
"I know, father, you have ever loved me. You have been a kind father, and I tenderly love you.
Grant me my dying request."

"What is it, my child? ask what you will, though it take every farthing
of my property, it shall be granted.

I will grant your request."

"My dear father, I now beg of you never again to speak lightly of Jesus of Nazareth; I know
that he is a Saviour, and that he has made himself known to me, since
I have been sick, even for the salvation of my soul.

I entreat you to obtain a Testament that tells of him and that you
may bestow on him the love that was formerly mine."

She now ceased speaking, her father left the room, when her soul took its flight to God who
gave it.

After her decease the parent purchased a Testament and read about
Jesus of Nazareth, and is now a devoted Christian.

Good children may be made blessings to their parents and friends.

ANECDOTES.

TRUE BENEFICENCE.--Mark Antony, when very much depressed, and at the
ebb of his fortune, cried out, "I have lost all, except what I have
given away."

WASHINGTON AND THE SOLDIER.--A British soldier said, "It was once in my power to shoot Gen. Washington."
"Why, then," said an American, "did you not do it?" "Because," he replied, "the death of Washington
would not have been for our benefit, for we depended upon him to treat our prisoners kindly."

YES AND NO.--John Randolph, in one of his letters to a young relative,
says: "You must expect unreasonable requests to be preferred to you
every day of your life; and you must endeavor to say no with as much
facility and kindness as you would say yes."

OSCEOLA.--It is said that the name of Osceola was given to that famous
chief by an old lady in a frontier village, who had newly arrived
in the country, and had never seen an Indian. When she saw him she
burst forth in utter astonishment--"Oh see! Oh la! What a curious
looking man!"

SIGISMOND.--This Emperor was once reproached by some
courtiers for being favorable to his foes--to whom he replied, "Do
I not effectually destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?"

CHINESE
PROVERBS.

What is told in the ear is often heard a hundred miles.

Riches
come better after poverty, than poverty after riches.

Who aims at
excellence will be above mediocrity; who aims at mediocrity will fall
short of it. You told me that the chariot
which held your family on the day of the battle of Vannes was harnessed to four black oxen?"

"Yes."

"Four black oxen, with a little white mark in the middle of their foreheads?"

"Yes, all four were brothers, and alike," I answered, unable to repress a sigh at the thought
of that fine yoke, raised on our own meadows, which my father and mother had always admired.

"Those oxen carried on their necks leathern collars trimmed with little brass bells like this
one?" continued the "horse-dealer," fumbling in his pocket, out of which he drew a little brass
bell that he held up before me.

I recognized it. It had been made by my brother Mikael, the armorer, and bore the mark with
which he stamped all the articles of his fashioning.

"This bell comes from our oxen," I answered. "Will you give it to me? It has no value."

"What," asked the dealer, laughing, "do you want to hang bells at your neck too, friend Bull?
It is your right. Here, take it. I brought it only to know from you if the yoke it came from
was of your family's chariot."

"Yes," I replied, putting the bell into my breeches pocket, as, perhaps, the only reminder
of the past which might be left to me. "Yes, that yoke was ours. But it seems to me that I
saw two of the oxen fall wounded in the fight."

"You are not mistaken. Two of the oxen were killed in the battle. The other two, though slightly
wounded, are alive, and were bought by one of my companions, who also bought three children
left in the chariot. Two of them, a little boy and a little girl of about eight or nine, still
had the cord around their necks. But my companion who found them was luckily able to bring
them back to life."

"Where is that merchant?" I asked, in a tremble.

"Here, at Vannes. You will see him to-morrow. We drew lots for our places at the auction, our
stands are opposite to each other. If the children he is to sell are yours, you will be near them."

"Shall I be really close?"

"You will be as close to them as twice the length of your room. But why do you press your hands
to your forehead?"

"I don't know. It is a long time since I have drunk wine. The glow of what you poured out to
me has gone to my head--a few seconds ago--I feel giddy."

"That proves, friend Bull, that my wine is generous," answered the "horse-dealer" with a strange
smile, and stepping out, he called to one of the keepers. Presently he returned with a chest
under his arm. He carefully shut the door, and hung a piece of curtain before the window, to
prevent anyone looking from without into the room, which was now lighted by a lamp. That done,
he again passed his eyes very attentively over me, without saying a word, all the while opening
his chest, from which he took several flasks, sponges, a little silver vase with a long curved
tube, and also several instruments, one of which seemed very keen. I watched my master closely,
feeling an inexplicable numbness gradually creeping over me. My heavy eye-lids fell once or
twice in spite of myself. I had been seated on my bed of straw, to which I was still chained;
but now I was compelled to lean my head against the wall, so heavy had it grown. Noticing the
effect of the wine upon me, the "horse-dealer" said:

"Friend Bull, do not be disturbed at what is happening to you."

"What--" I answered, trying to shake off my stupor, "What is happening to me?"

"You feel a sort of half-drowse creeping over you in spite of your resistance."

"True."

"You hear me, you see me, but as if your ears and eyes were covered with a veil."

"It is true," I murmured, for my voice also was growing weak, and without experiencing any
pain, my whole life seemed to be little by little ebbing out. In the picture you see a true emblem
of a temperate and virtuous life.

Let me here give you a few maxims to commit to memory:--

Avoid and
shun the sources of misery.

Be sure not to indulge your appetite.

Strong drink excites a person to do wrong.

Remember you are never out of temptation.
A life of virtue and temperance will secure to you money and time;
will give you health, and prosperity, peace, character, respect, and
usefulness.

PLEDGE.

Our hands and our hearts we give To the temperance
pledge, declaring, That long as on earth we live, All its bountiful
blessings sharing,

We will taste not and touch not the bowl That
burns with intoxication, And will lend our assistance to roll The
temperance ball through the nation. That appearance will
last barely a day or two, but I expect, by Jupiter, to have you sold by to-morrow evening,
free to turn yellow and waste away under your new master. So I am going to commence by stripping
you, and anointing you with this preparation of oil." The "horse-dealer" unlocked one of his
flasks.[23]

The performance affected me as so deep a disgrace put upon my dignity, that in spite of the
numbness which was more and more depressing me, I sprang to my feet, and shaking my hands and
arms, then unshackled, cried out:

"To-day I have no manacles on. If you come near I will strangle you!"

"I foresaw all that, friend Bull," chuckled the "horse-dealer," calmly pouring the oil of his
flask into a vase and soaking a sponge in it. "I knew you would get hot and resist. I might
have had you bound by the keepers, but in your violence you would have bruised your limbs,
a detestable sign for the sale. These bruises always denote a stubborn slave. And all the time,
what cries you would have let out! What a rebellion, when your head had to be shaved, in token
of your slavery!"

At this last insulting threat, I called up all my remaining strength. I arose, and threateningly
cried out at the dealer:

"By Ritha-Gaur, the saint of the Gauls, who made himself a shirt of the beards of the kings
he had shaved, if you dare to touch a single hair of my head, I'll kill you!"[24]

"Oh, oh! Reassure yourself, friend Bull," answered the "horse-dealer," pointing to his little
sharp instrument. "Reassure yourself. I shall not cut a single one of your hairs--but all."

I could retain my standing position no longer. Swaying on my legs like a drunken man, I fell
back on the straw, and heard the "horse-dealer" burst out laughing, and, while still pointing
at his steel instrument, say:

"Thanks to this, your forehead will soon be as bald as that of the great Caesar, whom, you
say, you carried on your horse in full armor. And the magic philter which you drank in that
Gallic wine will put you at my mercy, quiet as a corpse."

The "horse-dealer" spoke true. These words were the last I remember. A leaden torpor fell upon
me, and I lost all knowledge of what was done with me.

CHAPTER XII.

SOLD INTO BONDAGE.

The experience of that evening was only the prelude for a horrid day, a day doubly horrid due
to the mystery that surrounded it.

