     "If, in keeping non-existent things present to the imagination, the
     mind were at the same time aware that those things did not exist,
     surely it would regard this gift of imagination as a virtue in its
     own constitution, not as a vice: especially if such an imaginative
     faculty depended on nothing except the mind's own nature: that is
     to say, if this mental faculty of imagination were free".

But Locke had not so firm a hold on truth that he could afford to play with fancy; and as he
pushed forward the claims of human jurisdiction rather too far in physics, by assuming the
current science to be literally true, so, in the realm of imagination, he retrenched somewhat
illiberally our legitimate possessions. Strange that as modern philosophy transfers the visible
wealth of nature more and more to the mind, the mind should seem to lose courage and to become
ashamed of its own fertility. The hard-pressed natural man will not indulge his imagination
unless it poses for truth; and being half aware of this imposition, he is more troubled at
the thought of being deceived than at the fact of being mechanised or being bored: and he would
wish to escape imagination altogether. A good God, he murmurs, could not have made us poets
against our will.

Against his will, however, Locke was drawn to enlarge the subjective sphere. The actual existence
of mind was evident: you had only to notice the fact that you were thinking. Conscious mind,
being thus known to exist directly and independently of the body, was a primary constituent
of reality: it was a fact on its own account.[6] Common sense seemed to testify to this, not
only when confronted with the "I think, therefore I am" of Descartes, but whenever a thought
produced an action. Since mind and body interacted,[7] each must be as real as the other and,
as it were, on the same plane of being. Locke, like a good Protestant, felt the right of the
conscious inner man to assert himself: and when he looked into his own mind, he found nothing
to define this mind except the ideas which occupied it. Lord Bannatyne, Lord Cullen, Lord Abercrombie,
Lord Craig, and also Mr. George Home and Mr. George Ogilvie.

The first, now Sir William Bannatyne, a venerable and most accomplished gentleman of the old
school, is the only survivor. Mr. Mackenzie was in his 86th year, having been born in 1745. His eldest
son is Lord Mackenzie, at present an eminent Judge in the Courts of Session and Justiciary.

--Edinburgh
Evening Courant.

* * * * *

THE GATHERER.

A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

ARCH POETRY.

Pope Leo X. was particularly fond of Querno, a poet, the author of "The Alexiad," and who, at an
entertainment given by some young men of rank, had been dignified with the appellation of "The Arch
Poet." Leo used occasionally to send him some dishes from his table; and he was expected to pay
for each dish with a Latin distich. One day, as he was attending Leo at dinner, and was ill
of the gout, he made this line:

Archi-poeta facit versus pro mille poetis:

What pains for others the arch poet takes, He for a thousand poets verses makes.

As Querno hesitated for the next line, the good-humoured Pontiff replied--

Et pro mille aliis Archi-poeta bibit:

If for a thousand he's obliged
to think, He chooses for as many more to drink.

Querno, willing to make up for his former deficiency, exclaimed--

Porrige, quod facient mihi carmina docta Falernum:

To aid my genius, and my wit refine, Most Holy Pontiff, pour Falernian wine.

The Pope immediately replied--

Hoc vinum enervat debilitatque pedes:

I shall supply that wine with sparing hand, Which from the feet takes off the power to stand.

J.G.B.

*
* * * *

DOUBTING.

The mind that never doubts shall learn nothing; the mind
that ever doubts shall never profit by learning. Our doubts only stir
us up to seek truth; our resolution settles us in the truth we have
found. There were no pleasure in resolution, if we had not been formerly
troubled with doubts; there were nothing but discomfort and disquietness
in doubts, if it were not for the hope of resolution. It is not good
to let doubts dwell too long upon the heart; there may be good use
of them as passengers, but dangerous as inmates.

HALL.

* * * * *

CURIOUS
ANECDOTE OF A PICTURE.

In Windsor Castle is the celebrated painting
representing "The Interview of Henry the Eighth with Francis the First,"
between Guisnes and Ardres, near Calais, in the year 1520, on an open
plain, since denominated Le Champ de Drap d'or. "After the execution
of Charles the First," says Britton, "the parliament appointed commissioners
to dispose of his effects, and an agent from France began a treaty
with them for this painting. Philip, Earl of Pembroke, an eminent
admirer of the arts, who considered the picture as a valuable appendage
to an English palace, resolved, if possible, to prevent the bargain
being concluded, and went privately to the royal apartments, cut out
the head of King Henry from the canvass, placed it in his pocket-book,
and retired unnoticed. The agent, finding the picture so materially
mutilated, declined to purchase; and it remained in its station till
Cromwell, having obtained the supreme command, prevented any further
disposal of the collection. On the Restoration, the then Earl of Pembroke
delivered the dissevered fragment to Charles the Second, who ordered
it to be reinserted in its place. By looking sideways at the picture
in a proper light, the reparation becomes visible."

P.T.W.

* * *
* *

MEMORY.

It is reported of the Emperor Claudius, that he retained
in memory all Homer, Sallust, Demosthenes, Avicen, and Aristotle's
Metaphysics.

Tully and Seneca never heard any thing material but
it was imprinted in their memory.

Scaliger said he learned Homer
in twelve days, and all the Greek poets in four months.

Seneca, the
philosopher, could repeat two thousand names in the exact order in
which they were rehearsed to him.

Themistocles, when he was promised
to be taught the art of memory, said, "I had rather be taught the
art of forgetfulness, for I remember those things I would not, and
I cannot forget those things I would."

All philosophies are frail, in that they are products of the human mind, in which everything
is essentially reactive, spontaneous, and volatile: but as in passion and in language, so in
philosophy, there are certain comparatively steady and hereditary principles, forming a sort
of orthodox reason, which is or which may become the current grammar of mankind. Of philosophers
who are orthodox in this sense, only the earliest or the most powerful, an Aristotle or a Spinoza,
need to be remembered, in that they stamp their language and temper upon human reason itself.
The rest of the orthodox are justly lost in the crowd and relegated to the chorus. The frailty
of heretical philosophers is more conspicuous and interesting: it makes up the chronique scandaleuse
of the mind, or the history of philosophy. Locke belongs to both camps: he was restive in his
orthodoxy and timid in his heresies; and like so many other initiators of revolutions, he would
be dismayed at the result of his work. In intention Locke occupied an almost normal philosophic
position, rendered precarious not by what was traditional in it, like the categories of substance
and power, but rather by certain incidental errors--notably by admitting an experience independent
of bodily life, yet compounded and evolving in a mechanical fashion. But I do not find in him
a prickly nest of obsolete notions and contradictions from which, fledged at last, we have
flown to our present enlightenment. In his person, in his temper, in his allegiances and hopes,
he was the prototype of a race of philosophers native and dominant among people of English
speech, if not in academic circles, at least in the national mind. If we make allowance for
a greater personal subtlety, and for the diffidence and perplexity inevitable in the present
moral anarchy of the world, we may find this same Lockian eclecticism and prudence in the late
Lord Balfour: and I have myself had the advantage of being the pupil of a gifted successor
and, in many ways, emulator, of Locke, I mean William James. So great, at bottom, does their
spiritual kinship seem to me to be, that I can hardly conceive Locke vividly without seeing
him as a sort of William James of the seventeenth century. And who of you has not known some
other spontaneous, inquisitive, unsettled genius, no less preoccupied with the marvellous intelligence
of some Brazilian parrot, than with the sad obstinacy of some Bishop of Worcester? Here is
eternal freshness of conviction and ardour for reform; great keenness of perception in spots,
and in other spots lacunae and impulsive judgments; distrust of tradition, of words, of constructive
argument; horror of vested interests and of their smooth defenders; a love of navigating alone
and exploring for oneself even the coasts already well charted by others. Here is romanticism
united with a scientific conscience and power of destructive analysis balanced by moral enthusiasm.
Doubtless Locke might have dug his foundations deeper and integrated his faith better. His
system was no metaphysical castle, no theological acropolis: rather a homely ancestral manor
house built in several styles of architecture: a Tudor chapel, a Palladian front toward the
new geometrical garden, a Jacobean parlour for political consultation and learned disputes,
and even--since we are almost in the eighteenth century--a Chinese cabinet full of curios.
It was a habitable philosophy, and not too inharmonious. There was no greater incongruity in
its parts than in the gentle variations of English weather or in the qualified moods and insights
of a civilised mind. Impoverished as we are, morally and humanly, we can no longer live in
such a rambling mansion. It has become a national monument. On the days when it is open we
revisit it with admiration; and those chambers and garden walks re-echo to us the clear dogmas
and savoury diction of the sage--omnivorous, artless, loquacious--whose dwelling it was.

[2] See note I, p. 26.

[3] See note II, p. 29.

[4] See note III, p. 35.

[5] See note IV, p. 36.

[6] See note V, p. 37.

[7] See note VI, p. 39.

[8] See note VII, p. 43.

[9] See note VIII, p. 46.

SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES

I

Page 3. This airy monster, this half-natural changeling.

Monsters and changelings were pointed to by Locke with a certain controversial relish: they
proved that nature was not compressed or compressible within Aristotelian genera and species,
but was a free mechanism subject to indefinite change. Mechanism in physics is favourable to
liberty in politics and morals: each creature has a right to be what it spontaneously is, and
not what some previous classification alleges that it ought to have been. The Protestant and
revolutionary independence of Locke's mind here gives us a foretaste of Darwin and even of
Nietzsche. But Locke was moderate even in his radicalisms. A human nature totally fluid would
of itself have proved anarchical; but in order to stem that natural anarchy it was fortunately
possible to invoke the conditions of prosperity and happiness strictly laid down by the Creator.
The improvidence and naughtiness of nature was called to book at every turn by the pleasures
and pains divinely appended to things enjoined and to things forbidden, and ultimately by hell
and by heaven. Yet if rewards and punishments were attached to human action and feeling in
this perfectly external and arbitrary fashion, whilst the feelings and actions spontaneous
in mankind counted for nothing in the rule of morals and of wisdom, we should be living under
the most cruel and artificial of tyrannies; and it would not be long before the authority of
such a code would be called in question and the reality of those arbitrary rewards and punishments
would be denied, both for this world and for any other. In a truly rational morality moral
sanctions would have to vary with the variation of species, each new race or individual or
mode of feeling finding its natural joy in a new way of life. The monsters would not be monsters
except to rustic prejudice, and the changelings would be simply experiments in creation. The
glee of Locke in seeing nature elude scholastic conventions would then lose its savour, since
those staid conventions themselves would have become obsolete. Nature would henceforth present
nothing but pervasive metamorphosis, irresponsible and endless. To correct the weariness of
such pure flux we might indeed invoke the idea of a progress or evolution towards something
always higher and better; but this idea simply reinstates, under a temporal form, the dominance
of a specific standard, to which nature is asked to conform. Genera and species might shift
and glide into one another at will, but always in the authorised direction. If, on the contrary,
transformation had no predetermined direction, we should be driven back, for a moral principle,
to each of the particular types of life generated on the way: as in estimating the correctness
or beauty of language we appeal to the speech and genius of each nation at each epoch, without
imposing the grammar of one language or age upon another. It is only in so far as, in the midst
of the flux, certain tropes become organised and recurrent, that any interests or beauties
can be transmitted from moment to moment or from generation to generation. Physical integration
is a prerequisite to moral integrity; and unless an individual or a species is sufficiently
organised and determinate to aspire to a distinguishable form of life, eschewing all others,
that individual or species can bear no significant name, can achieve no progress, and can approach
no beauty or perfection.

Thus, so long as in a fluid world there is some measure of life and organisation, monsters
and changelings will always remain possible physically and regrettable morally. Small deviations
from the chosen type or the chosen direction of progress will continue to be called morbid
and ugly, and great deviations or reversals will continue to be called monstrous. This is but
the seamy side of that spontaneous predilection, grounded in our deepest nature, by which we
recognise beauty and nobleness at first sight, with immense refreshment and perfect certitude.

II

Page 8. Through Descartes.

Very characteristic was the tireless polemic which Locke carried on against Descartes. The
outraged plain facts had to be defended against sweeping and arbitrary theories. There were
no innate ideas or maxims: children were not born murmuring that things equal to the same thing
were equal to one another: and an urchin knew that pain was caused by the paternal slipper
before he reflected philosophically that everything must have a cause. Again, extension was
not the essence of matter, which must be solid as well, to be distinguishable from empty space.
Finally, thinking was not the essence of the soul: a man, without dying, might lose consciousness:
this often happened, or at least could not be prevented from happening by a definition framed
by a French philosopher. These protests were evidently justified by common sense: yet they
missed the speculative radicalism and depth of the Cartesian doctrines, which had struck the
keynotes of all modern philosophy and science: for they assumed, for the first time in history,
the transcendental point of view. No wonder that Locke could not do justice to this great novelty:
Descartes himself did not do so, but ignored his subjective first principles in the development
of his system; and it was not until adopted by Kant, or rather by Fichte, that the transcendental
method showed its true colours. Even today philosophers fumble with it, patching soliloquy
with physics and physics with soliloquy. Moreover, Locke's misunderstandings of Descartes were
partly justified by the latter's verbal concessions to tradition and authority. A man who has
a clear head, and like Descartes is rendered by his aristocratic pride both courteous and disdainful,
may readily conform to usage in his language, and even in his personal sentiments, without
taking either too seriously: he is not struggling to free his own mind, which is free already,
nor very hopeful of freeing that of most people. The innate ideas were not explicit thoughts
but categories employed unwittingly, as people in speaking conform to the grammar of the vernacular
without being aware that they do so. As for extension being the essence of matter, since matter
existed and was a substance, it would always have been more than its essence: a sort of ether
the parts of which might move and might have different and calculable dynamic values. The gist
of this definition of matter was to clear the decks for scientific calculation, by removing
from nature the moral density and moral magic with which the Socratic philosophy had encumbered
it. Science would be employed in describing the movements of bodies, leaving it for the senses
and feelings to appreciate the cross-lights that might be generated in the process. Though
not following the technique of Descartes, the physics of our own day realises his ideal, and
traces in nature a mathematical dynamism, perfectly sufficient for exact prevision and mechanical
art.

Similarly, in saying that the essence of the soul was to think, Descartes detached consciousness,
or actual spirit, from the meshes of all unknown organic or invented mental mechanisms. It
was an immense clarification and liberation in its proper dimension: but this pure consciousness
was not a soul; it was not the animal psyche, or principle of organisation, life, and passion--a
principle which, according to Descartes, was material. To have called such a material principle
the soul would have shocked all Christian conceptions; but if Descartes had abstained from
giving that consecrated name to mere consciousness, he need not have been wary of making the
latter intermittent and evanescent, as it naturally is. He was driven to the conclusion that
the soul can never stop thinking, by the desire to placate orthodox opinion, and his own Christian
sentiments, at the expense of attributing to actual consciousness a substantial independence
and a directive physical force which were incongruous with it: a force and independence perfectly
congruous with the Platonic soul, which had been a mythological being, a supernatural spirit
or daemon or incubus, incarnate in the natural world, and partly dominating it. The relations
of such a soul to the particular body or bodies which it might weave for itself on earth, to
the actions which it performed through such bodies, and to the current of its own thoughts,
then became questions for theology, or for a moralistic theory of the universe. They were questions
remote from the preoccupations of the modern mind; yet it was not possible either for Locke
or for Descartes to clear their fresh conceptions altogether from those ancient dreams.

What views precisely did Locke oppose to these radical tendencies of Descartes?

In respect to the nature of matter, I have indicated above the position of Locke: pictorially
he accepted an ordinary atomism; scientifically, the physics of Newton.

On the other two points Locke's convictions were implicit rather than speculative: he resisted
the Cartesian theories without much developing his own, as after all was natural in a critic
engaged in proving that our natural faculties were not intended for speculation. All knowledge
came from experience, and no man could know the savour of a pineapple without having tasted
it. Yet this savour, according to Locke, did not reside at first in the pineapple, to be conveyed
on contact to the palate and to the mind; but it was generated in the process of gustation;
or perhaps we should rather say that it was generated in the mind on occasion of that process.
At least, then, in respect to secondary qualities, and to all moral values, the terms of human
knowledge were not drawn from the objects encountered in the world, but from an innate sensibility
proper to the human body or mind. Experience--if this word meant the lifelong train of ideas
which made a man's moral being--was not a source of knowledge but was knowledge (or illusion)
itself, produced by organs endowed with a special native sensibility in contact with varying
external stimuli. This conclusion would then not have contradicted, but exactly expressed,
the doctrine of innate categories.

As to the soul, which might exist without thinking, Locke still called it an immaterial substance:
not so immaterial, however, as not to be conveyed bodily with him in his coach from London
to Oxford. Although, like Hobbes, Locke believed in the power of the English language to clarify
the human intellect, he here ignored the advice of Hobbes to turn that befuddling Latin phrase
into plain English. Substance meant body: immaterial meant bodiless: therefore immaterial substance
meant bodiless body. True, substance had not really meant body for Aristotle or the Schoolmen;
but who now knew or cared what anything had meant for them? Locke scornfully refused to consider
what a substantial form may have signified; and in still maintaining that he had a soul, and
calling it a spiritual substance, he was probably simply protesting that there was something
living and watchful within his breast, the invisible moral agent in all his thoughts and actions.
It was he that had them and did them; and this self of his was far from being reducible to
a merely logical impersonal subject, an "I think" presupposed in all thought: for what would
this "I think" have become when it was not thinking? On the other hand it mattered very little
what the substance of a thinking being might be: God might even have endowed the body with
the faculty of thinking, and of generating ideas on occasion of certain impacts. Yet a man
was a man for all that: and Locke was satisfied that he knew, at least well enough for an honest
Englishman, what he was. He was what he felt himself to be: and this inner man of his was not
merely the living self, throbbing now in his heart; it was all his moral past, all that he
remembered to have been. If, from moment to moment, the self was a spiritual energy astir within,
in retrospect the living present seemed, as it were, to extend its tentacles and to communicate
its subjectivity to his whole personal past. The limits of his personality were those of his
memory, and his experience included everything that his living mind could appropriate and re-live.
In a word, he was his idea of himself: and this insight opens a new chapter not only in his
philosophy but in the history of human self-estimation. Mankind was henceforth invited not
to think of itself as a tribe of natural beings, nor of souls, with a specific nature and fixed
possibilities. Each man was a romantic personage or literary character: he was simply what
he was thought to be, and might become anything that he could will to become. The way was opened
for Napoleon on the one hand and for Fichte on the other.

III

Page 9. All ideas must be equally conditioned. 

By this arrangement the King could proceed on a level from his apartment to the Cathedral.

In the middle of the nave was erected a magnificent jube, where the throne of Charles X. was placed.
The cornice of the Corinthian order was supported by twenty columns. To run in a circle is one thing; to conceive a circle is another. Our mind by its
animal roots (which render it relevant to the realm of matter and cognitive) and by its spiritual
actuality (which renders it original, synthetic, and emotional) is a language, from its beginnings;
almost, we might say, a biological poetry; and the greater the intellectuality and poetic abstraction
the greater the possible range. Yet we must not expect this scope of speculation in us to go
with adequacy or exhaustiveness: on the contrary, mathematics and religion, each in its way
so sure, leave most of the truth out.

IV

Page 9. He cannot be aware of what goes on beyond him, except as it affects his own life.

Even that spark of divine intelligence which comes into the animal soul, as Aristotle says,
from beyond the gates, comes and is called down by the exigencies of physical life. An animal
endowed with locomotion cannot merely feast sensuously on things as they appear, but must react
upon them at the first signal, and in so doing must virtually and in intent envisage them as
they are in themselves. For it is by virtue of their real constitution and intrinsic energy
that they act upon us and suffer change in turn at our hands; so that whatsoever form things
may take to our senses and intellect, they take that form by exerting their material powers
upon us, and intertwining them in action with our own organisms.

Thus the appearance of things is always, in some measure, a true index to their reality. Animals
are inevitably engaged in self-transcending action, and the consciousness of self-transcending
action is self-transcendent knowledge. The very nature of animal life makes it possible, within
animal consciousness, to discount appearance and to correct illusion--things which in a vegetative
or aesthetic sensibility would not be distinguishable from pure experience itself. But when
aroused to self-transcendent attention, feeling must needs rise to intelligence, so that external
fact and impartial truth come within the range of consciousness, not indeed by being contained
there, but by being aimed at. 

He was also the author of the music of the Indian Queen, Arthur and
Emmeline, and a variety of other pieces.

It may be observed that these names are not clustering, but solitary,
appearing at long intervals.

Locke, the producer of the music in the incantation scene in Macbeth, as now sung and played,
was the contemporary of Purcell. Dr. Arne next appears, the famous composer of Artaxerxes. Bishop,
who has identified himself with almost every thing valuable in modern composition, is well known,
as are also his works.
 For
if I may disown all actions I have forgotten, may not things not done or witnessed by me in
the body be now appropriated and incorporated in my consciousness, if only I conceive them
vividly? The door is then open to all the noble ambiguities of idealism. As my consciousness
expands, or thinks it expands, into dramatic sympathy with universal experience, that experience
becomes my own. I may say I have been the agent in all past achievements. Emerson could know
that he was Shakespeare and Caesar and Christ. Futurity is mine also, in every possible direction
at once; and I am one with the spirit of the universe and with God.

