Next came the child's scruple about not kneeling; but at last he was satisfied, if Aunt Ethel
would give him his little book out of the drawer--that little delicately-illuminated book with
the pointed writing and the twisted cipher, Meta's hand in every touch. Presently he looked
up, and said: 'Aunt Ethel, isn't there a verse somewhere about giving the angels charge?  I
want you to find it for me, for I think they helped me to hold on, and helped Leonard upon
the narrow place.  You know they are sure to be flying about the church.'

Ethel read the ninety-first Psalm to him.  He listened all through, and thanked her; but in
a few minutes more he was fast asleep.  As she left the room she met Leonard coming down and
held out her hands to him with a mute intensity of thanks, telling him, in a low voice, what
Dickie had said of the angels' care.

'I am sure it was true,' said Leonard.  'What else could have saved the brave child from dizziness?'

Down-stairs Leonard's reception from Dr. May was, 'Pretty well for a nervous man!'

'Anybody can do what comes to hand.'

'I beg your pardon.  Some bodies lose their wits, like your friend Aubrey, who tells me, if
he had stood still, he would have fainted away.  As long as nerves can do what comes to hand,
they need not be blamed, even if they play troublesome tricks at other times, as I suspect
they are doing now.'

'Yes; my face is aching a little.'

'Not to say a great deal,' said the Doctor.  'Well, I am not going to pity you; for I think
you can feel to-day that most of us would be glad to be in your place!'

'I am very glad,' said Leonard.

'You remember that child's parents?  No, you have grown so old, that I am always forgetting
what a boy you ought to be; but if you had ever seen the tenderness of his father, and that
sunbeam of a Meta, you would know all the more how we bless you for what you have spared them.
Leonard, if anything had been needed to do so, you have won to yourself such a brother in Norman
as you have in Aubrey!'

Meantime Ethel was soothing Gertrude, to whom the shock had been in proportion to the triumphal
heights of her careless gaiety.  Charles Cheviot had come in while his wife was restoring her;
and he had plainly said what no one else would have intimated to the spoilt darling--that the
whole accident had been owing to her recklessness, and that he had always expected some fatal
consequences to give her a lesson!

Gertrude had been fairly cowed by such unwonted treatment; and when he would only take her
home on condition of composure and self-command, her trembling limbs obliged her to accept
his arm, and he subdued her into meek silence, and repression of all agitation, till she was
safe in her room, when she took a little bit of revenge upon Mary by crying her heart out,
and declaring it was very cruel of Charles, when she did not mean it.

And Mary, on her side, varied between assurances that Charles did not mean it, and that he
was quite right--the sister now predominating in her, and now the wife.

'Mean what?' said Ethel, sitting down among them before they were aware.

'That--that it was all my fault!' burst out Gertrude.  'If it was, I don't see what concern
it is of his!'

'But, Daisy dear, he is your brother!'

'I've got plenty of brothers of my own!  I don't count those people-in-law--'

'She's past reasoning with, Mary,' said Ethel.  'Leave her to me; she will come to her senses
by and by!'

'But indeed, Ethel, you won't be hard on her?  I am sure dear Charles never thought what he
said would have been taken in this way.'

'Why did he say it then?' cried Gertrude, firing up.

'My dear Mary, do please go down, before we get into the pitiable last-word condition!'

That condition was reached already; but in Ethel's own bed-room Mary's implicit obedience revived,
and away she went, carrying off with her most of what was naughtiness in Gertrude.

'Ethel--Ethel dear!' cried she at once, 'I know you are coming down on me.  I deserve it all,
only Charles had no business to say it. And wasn't it very cruel and unkind when he saw the
state I was in?'

'I suppose Charles thought it was the only chance of giving a lesson, and therefore true kindness.
Come, Daisy, is this terrible fit of pride a proper return for such a mercy as we have had to-day?'

'If I didn't say so to myself a dozen times on the way home!--only Mary came and made me so
intolerably angry, by expecting me to take it as if it had come from you or papa.'

'Ah, Daisy, that is the evil!  If I had done my duty by you all, this would not have been!'

'Now, Ethel, when you want to be worse, and more cutting than anything, you go and tell me
my faults are yours!  For pity's sake, don't come to that!'

'But I must, Daisy, for it is true.  Oh, if you had only been a naughty little girl!'

'What--and had it out then?' said Daisy, who was lying across the bed, and put her golden head
caressingly on Ethel's knee.  'If I had plagued you then, you would have broken me in out of
self-defence.'

'Something like it,' said Ethel.  'But you know, Daisy, the little last treasure that mamma
left did always seem something we could not make enough of, and it didn't make you fractious
or tiresome--at least not to us--till we thought you could not be spoilt.  And then I didn't
see the little faults so soon as I ought; and I'm only an elder sister, after all, without
any authority.'

'No, you're not to say that, Ethel, I mind your authority, and always will.  You are never
a bother.'

'Ah, that's it, Daisy!  If I had only been a bother, you might never have got ahead of yourself.'

'Then you really think, like Charles Cheviot, that it was my doing, Ethel?'

'What do you think yourself?'

Great tears gathered in the corners of the blue eyes.  Was it weak in Ethel not to bear the sight?

'My poor Daisy,' she said, 'yours is not all the burden!  I ought not to have taken up such
a giddy company, or else I should have kept the boy under my hand.  But he is so discreet and
independent, that it is more like having a gentleman staying in the house, than a child under
one's charge; and one forgets how little he is; and I was as much off my balance with spirits
as you.  It was the flightiness of us all; and we have only to be thankful, and to be sobered
for another time. I am afraid the pride about being reproved is really the worse fault.'

'And what do you want me to do?--to go and tell papa all about it? I mean to do that, of course;
it is the only way to get comforted.'

'Of course it is; but--'

'You horrid creature, Ethel!  I'll never say you aren't a bother again. You really do want
me to go and tell Charles Cheviot that he was quite right, and Mary that I'm ready to be trampled
on by all my brothers-in-law in a row!  Well, there won't be any more.  You'll never give me
one--that's one comfort!' said Gertrude, wriggling herself up, and flinging an arm round Ethel's
neck.  'As long as you don't do that, I'll do anything for you.'

'Not for me.'

'Well, you know that, you old thing! only you might take it as a personal compliment.  I really
will do it; for, of course, one could not keep one's Christmas otherwise!'  It was rather too
business-like; but elders are often surprised to find what was a hard achievement in their
time a matter of course to their pupils--almost lightly passed over.

Dickie slept till morning, when he was found very pale, but lively and good-humoured as ever.
Mr. Wright, coming up to see him, found the hurt going on well, and told Ethel, that if she
could keep him in bed and undisturbed for the day, it would be better and safer; but that if
he became restless and fretful, there would be no great risk in taking him to a sofa.  Restless
and fretful!  Mr. Wright little knew the discretion, or the happy power of accommodation to
circumstances, that had descended to Meta's firstborn.

He was quite resigned as soon as the explanation had been made--perhaps, indeed, there was
an instinctive sense, that to be dressed and moved would be fatiguing; but he had plenty of
smiles and animation for his visitors, and, when propped up in bed, was full of devices for
occupation.  Moreover he acquired a slave; he made a regular appropriation of Leonard, whom
he quickly perceived to be the most likely person to assist in his great design of constructing
a model of the clock in the Minster tower, for the edification of his little brother Harry.
Leonard worked away at the table by the bed-side with interest nearly equal to the child's;
and when wire and cardboard were wanting, he put aside all his dislike to facing the Stoneborough
streets and tradesmen in open day, and, at Dickie's request, sallied forth in quest of the
materials.  And when the bookseller made inquiries after the boy, Leonard, in the fulness of
his heart, replied freely and in detail--nay, he was so happy in the little man's well-doing,
that he was by no means disconcerted even by a full encounter of Mrs. Harvey Anderson in the
street, but answered all her inquiries, in entire oblivion of all but the general rejoicing
in little Dickie's wonderful escape.

'Well,' said Aubrey to his sisters, after a visit to his nephew's room, 'Dickie has the best
right to him, certainly, to-day.  It is an absolute appropriation!  They were talking away
with all their might when I came up, but came to a stop when I went in, and Master Dick sent
me to the right-about.'

The truth was, that Dickie, who, with eyes and ears all alive, had gathered up some fragments
of Leonard's history, had taken this opportunity of catechizing him upon it in a manner that
it was impossible to elude, and which the child's pretty tact carried off, as it did many things
which would not have been tolerated if done rudely and abruptly.  Step by step, in the way
of question and remark, he led Leonard to tell him all that had happened; and when once fairly
embarked in the reminiscence, there was in it a kind of peace and pleasure.  The fresh, loving,
wondering sympathy of the little boy was unspeakably comforting; and besides, the bringing
the facts in their simple form to the grasp of the childish mind, restored their proportion,
which their terrible consequences had a good deal disturbed.  They seemed to pass from the
present to the historical, and to assume the balance that they took in the child's mind, coming
newly upon them.  It was like bathing in a clear limpid stream, that washed away the remains
of morbid oppression.

'I wish mamma was here,' said the little friend, at last.

'Do you want her?  Are you missing her, my dear?'

'I miss her always,' said Dickie.  'But it was not that--only mamma always makes everybody
so happy; and she would be so fond of you, because you have had so much trouble.'

'But, Dickie, don't you think I am happy to be with your grandfather and aunt, and hoping to
see my own sisters very soon--your aunt, who taught me what bore me through it all?'

'Aunt Ethel?' cried Dickie, considering.  'I like Aunt Ethel very much; but then she is not
like mamma!'

There could be no doubt that Leonard was much better and happier after this adventure.  Reluctantly,
Dickie let him go back to Cocksmoor, where his services in church-decking and in singing had
been too much depended on to be dispensed with; but he was to come back with Richard for the
family assembly on Christmas evening.

Moreover, Gertrude, who was quite herself again, having made her peace with the Cheviots, and
endured the reception of her apologies, seized on him to lay plots for a Christmas-tree, for
the delectation of Dickie on his sofa, and likewise of Margaret Rivers, and of the elite of
the Cocksmoor schools.  He gave in to it heartily, and on the appointed day worked with great
spirit at the arrangements in the dining-room, where Gertrude, favoured by the captive state
of the little boy, conducted her preparations, relegating the family meals to the schoolroom.

This tree was made the occasion for furnishing Leonard with all the little appliances of personal
property that had been swept away from him; and, after all, he was the most delighted of the
party.  The small Charlie Cheviot had to be carried off shrieking; Margaret Rivers was critical;
even Cocksmoor was experienced in Christmas-trees; and Dickie, when placed in the best situation,
and asked if such trees grew in New Zealand, made answer that he helped mamma to make one every
year for the Maori children.  It was very kind in Aunt Daisy, he added, with unfailing courtesy;
but he was too zealous for his colony to be dazzled--too utilitarian to be much gratified by
any of his gifts, excepting a knife of perilous excellence, which Aubrey, in contempt of Stoneborough
productions, had sacrificed from his own pocket at the last moment.

Leonard and Dickie together were in a state of great delight at the little packets handed to
the former; studs, purse, pencil-case, writing materials; from Hector Ernescliffe, a watch,
with the entreaty that his gifts might not be regarded as unlucky; from Ethel, a photographic
book, with the cartes of his own family, whose old negatives had been hunted up for the purpose;
also a recent one of Dr. May with his grandson on his knee, the duplicate of which was gone
to New Zealand, with the Doctor's inscription, 'The modern Cyropaedia, Astyages confounded.'
There was Richard, very good, young and pretty; there was Ethel, exactly like the Doctor, 'only
more so;' there was Gertrude, like nobody, not even herself, and her brothers much in the same
predicament, there was the latest of Mr. Rivers's many likenesses, with the cockatoo on his
wrist, and there was the least truculent and witchlike of the numerous attempts on Flora; there
was Mrs. Cheviot, broad-faced and smiling over her son, and Mr. and Mrs. Ernescliffe, pinioning
the limbs of their offspring, as in preparation for a family holocaust; there was Dickie's
mamma, unspoilable in her loveliness even by photography, and his papa grown very bald and
archidiaconal; there was Ethel's great achievement of influence, Dr. Spencer, beautiful in
his white hair; there were the vicar and the late and present head-masters.  The pleasure excited
by all these gifts far exceeded the anticipations of their donors, it seemed as if they had
fallen on the very moment when they would convey a sense of home, welcome, and restoration.
He did not say much, but looked up with liquid lustrous eyes, and earnest 'thank you's,' and
caressingly handled and examined the treasures over and over again, as they lay round him on
Dickie's couch.  'I suppose,' said the child to him, 'it is like Job, when all his friends
came to see him, and every one gave him a piece of money.'

'He could hardly have enjoyed it more,' murmured Leonard, feeling the restful capacity of happiness
in the new possession of the child's ardent love, and of the kind looks of all around, above
all, of the one presence that still gave him his chief sense of sunshine.  The boyish and romantic
touch of passion had, as Ethel had long seen, been burnt and seared away, and yet there was
something left, something that, as on this evening she felt, made his voice softer, his eye
more deferential, to her than to any one else.  Perhaps she had once been his guiding star;
and if in the wild tempests of the night he had learnt instead to direct his course by the
"Brightest and best of the sons of the morning," still the star would be prized and distinguished,
as the first and most honoured among inferior constellations.

CHAPTER XXIX

  Till now the dark was worn, and overhead
  The lights of sunset and of sunrise mixed.--TENNYSON

At New York, Tom wrote a short letter to announce his safe arrival, and then pushed on by railway
into Indiana.  Winter had completely set in; and when he at length arrived at Winiamac, he
found that a sleigh was a far readier mode of conveyance to Massissauga than the wagons used
in summer.  His drive, through the white cathedral-like arcades of forest, hung with transparent
icicles, and with the deep blue sky above, becoming orange towards the west, was enjoyable;
and even Massissauga itself, when its skeleton trees were like their neighbours, embellished
by the pure snowy covering, looked less forlorn than when their death contrasted with the exuberant
life around.  He stopped at the hotel, left his baggage there, and after undergoing a catechism
on his personal affairs, was directed to Mr. Muller's house, and made his way up its hard-trodden
path of snow, towards the green door, at which he knocked two or three times before it was
opened by a woman, whose hair and freckled skin were tinted nowhere but in Ireland.

He made a step forward out of the cutting blast into the narrow entry, and began to ask, 'Is
Miss Ward here?  I mean, can I see Miss Warden?' when, as if at the sound of his voice, there
rang from within the door close by a shriek--one of the hoarse hysterical cries he had heard
upon the day of the inquest.  Without a moment's hesitation, he pushed open the door, and beheld
a young lady in speechless terror hanging over the stiffened figure on the couch--the eyes
wide open, the limbs straight and rigid.  He sprang forward, and lifted her into a more favourable
posture, hastily asking for simple remedies likely to be at hand, and producing a certain amount
of revival for a few moments, though the stiffness was not passing--nor was there evidence
of consciousness.

'Are you Leonard?' said Cora Muller, under her breath, in this brief interval, gazing into
his face with frightened puzzled eyes.

'No; but I am come to tell her that he is free!'  But the words were cut short by another terrible
access, of that most distressing kind that stimulates convulsion; and again the terrified women
instinctively rendered obedience to the stranger in the measures he rapidly took, and his words,
'hysteria--a form of hysteria,' were forced from him by the necessity of lessening Cora's intense
alarm, so as to enable her to be effective.  'We must send for Dr. Laidlaw,' she began in the
first breathing moment, and again he looked up and said, 'I am a physician!'

'Mr. Tom?' she asked with the faintest shadow of a smile; he bent his head, and that was their
introduction, broken again by another frightful attack; and when quiescence, if not consciousness,
was regained, Tom knelt by the sofa, gazing with a sense of heart-rending despair at the wasted
features and thin hands, the waxen whiteness of the cheek, and the tokens in which he clearly
read long and consuming illness as well as the overthrow of the sudden shock.

'What is this?' he asked, looking up to Cora's beautiful anxious face.

'Oh, she has been very sick, very sick,' she answered; 'it was an attack of pleurisy; but she
is getting better at last, though she will not think so, and this news will make all well.
Does she hear? Say it again!'

Tom shook his head, afraid of the sound of the name as yet, and scarcely durst even utter the
word 'Ella' above his breath.

'She is gone out with Cousin Deborah to an apple bee,' was the reassuring answer.  'She wanted
change, poor child!  Is she getting better?'

Averil was roused by a cough, the sound which tore Tom's heart by its import, but he drew back
out of her sight, and let Cora raise her, and give her drink, in a soothing tender manner,
that was evident restoration.  'Cora dear, is it you?' she said, faintly; 'didn't I hear some
one else's voice?  Didn't they say--?' and the shiver that crept over her was almost a return
of the hysteric fit.

'We said he was free,' said Cora, holding her in her arms.

'Free--yes, I know what that means--free among the dead,' said Averil, calmly, smoothing Cora's
hair, and looking in her face. 'Don't be afraid to let me hear.  I shall be there with him
and Minna soon. Didn't somebody come to tell me?  Please let him in, I'll be quiet now.'

And as she made gestures of arranging her hair and dress, Tom guardedly presented himself,
saying in a voice that trembled with his endeavour to render it calm, 'Did you think I should
have come if I had nothing better to tell you?' and as she put out her hand in greeting, he
took it in both his own, and met her eyes looking at him wide open, in the first dawning of
the hope of an impossible gladness.  'Yes,' he said, 'the truth is come out--he is cleared--he
is at home--at Stoneborongh!'

The hot fingers closed convulsively on his own, then she raised herself, pressed her hands
together, and gasped and struggled fearfully for breath.  The joy and effort for self-command
were more than the enfeebled frame could support, and there was a terrible and prolonged renewal
of those agonizing paroxysms, driving away every thought from the other two except of the immediate
needs.  At last, when the violence of the attack had subsided, and left what was either fainting
or stupor, they judged it best to carry her to her bed, and trust that, reviving without the
associations of the other room, the agitation would be less likely to return, and that she
might sleep under the influence of an anodyne.  Poor Tom! it was not the reception he had figured
to himself, and after he had laid her down, and left her to Cora and to Katty to be undressed,
he returned to the parlour, and stood over the sinking wood-fire in dejection and dreariness
of heart--wrung by the sufferings he had witnessed, with the bitter words (too late) echoing
in his brain, and with the still more cruel thought--had it been his father or one of his brothers--any
one to whose kindness she could trust, the shock had not been so great, and there would have
been more sense of soothing and comfort! Besides the title-piece, a satire of some length upon
the mediævalism of the pre-Raphaelites, the book contains shorter pieces--"Flirts in Hades," "Poor
Pussy's Nightmare," "The Fool's Paradise, or Love and Life," "A Lost Illusion," "Vers Nonsensiques,"
"L'Onglay à Parry," "Two Thrones," "A Love-Agony," "A Simple Story," "A Ballad of Blunders"
(after Swinburne's "Ballad of Burdens"), and then a story in prose,
"The Rise and Fall of the Jack Spratts: A tale of Modern Art and Fashion."

All the poetry is in the ballad strain, and by its monotony the reader is put into the right condition
to receive a shock from some felicitous twist at the end of a line. Thus it is almost impossible
to quote from them.

The humour rests in each case with the whole of the skit; and in the case of one of the best
of the whole series, "A Love-Agony," a poem for a picture by Maudle, given, there must be
understanding on the reader's part, of the art "cult" against which
it is directed.

"The Rise and Fall of the Jack Spratts" is du Maurier's first attempt at a work of fiction.
It is significant that in style it has the lightness of touch that would be expected from the
disciple of Thackeray, and that afterwards won by its "taking" character the hearts of the
readers of Trilby.

It is the story of a painter, his wife and their twin children. It opens with a picture of them
at home, Jack Spratt dreaming, even in those days, of Post-Impressionism,
showing that du Maurier was a prophet, "dreaming of the ante-pre-Raphaelite
school.

In the depths of his bliss a feeling of discouragement would steal
over him as he thought of those immortal works, showing thereby that
he was a true artist, ever striving after the light.

He little dreamt in his modesty that, young and inexperienced though he might be, his pictures
were even quainter than theirs; for not only could he already draw,
colour, compose, and put into perspective quite as badly as they did,
but he had over them the advantage of a real lay figure to copy, whereas
they had to content themselves with the living model."

"The amusements of this happy pair were the simplest, healthiest, and most delightful kind; they
never went to the play, nor to balls or dances, which they thought
immodest--(indeed they were not even asked)--nor read such things
as novels, magazines, or the newspaper; nor visited exhibitions of
modern art, which they held in contempt, as they did all things modern;
... and they were devoted to music, not that of the present day, which
they despised, nor that of the future, of which they had never heard;
nor English music, which was not old enough."

Of their friends, "They were few, but true and trusty, with remarkably fine heads for a painter
... their deportment grave, sad and very strange; for the death of the early Italian masters
still weighed on their soul with all the force of some recent domestic bereavement. They looked
on themselves and each other and the Jack Spratts, and were looked
upon by the Jack Spratts in return as the sole incarnation on this
degenerate earth of all such as had still managed to survive there;
and so they were always telling each other and everyone else they met.

And no wonder, for they were marvellously accomplished; being each
of them painter, sculptor, architect, poet, critic and engraver, all
in one; and all this without ever having learnt...."



A little discomfited at the trouble he was causing, Tom was obliged to wait while not only
Cousin Deborah, but Cora busied herself in the kitchen, and Ella in her restless joy came backwards
and forwards to report their preparations, and at times to tarry a short space by his side,
and tell of the recent troubles.  Ave had been very ill, she said, very ill indeed about a
month ago, and Henry had come home to see her, but had been obliged to go away to the siege
of Charleston when she was better.  They had all been ill ever since they came there, but now
Mr. Tom was come, should not they all go home to dear Stoneborough, away from this miserable
place?  If they could only take Cora with them!

It was still a childish tongue; but Ella had outgrown all her plump roundness, and was so tall
and pale that Tom would hardly have known her.  Her welcome was relief and comfort, and she
almost inspired her own belief that now all would be well.  His English ideas were rather set
at rest by finding that Mrs. Deborah was to preside at the tea-table, and that he was not to
be almost tete-a-tete with Miss Muller. Deborah having concluded her hospitable cares, catechized
him to her full content, and satisfied herself on the mystery of the Wardens' life.

And now what brought himself out?  She guessed he could not find an opening in the old country.
Tom smiled, explained his opening at home, and mentioned his charge of his late friend's book.

'So you are come out about the book, and just come a few hundred miles out of the way to bring
this bit of news, that you could have telegraphed,' said the Yankee dame, looking at him with
her keen eyes. 'Well, if you were coming, it was a pity you were not sooner. She has pined
away ever since she came here; and to such a worn-down condition as hers, poor child, I doubt
joy's kinder more upsetting than trouble, when one is used to it.  There; I'll fix the things,
and go up and sit with Avy.  She'll be less likely to work herself into a flight again if she
sees me than one of you.'

So Tom--less embarrassed now--found himself sitting by the fire, with Ella roasting her favourite
nuts for him, and Miss Muller opposite. He was taken by surprise by her beautiful face, elegant
figure, and lady-like manner, and far more by her evidently earnest affection for Averil.

She told him that ever since the fatal turn of little Minna's illness, Averil had been subject
to distressing attacks of gasping and rigidity, often passing into faintness; and though at
the moment of emotion she often showed composure and self-command, yet that nature always thus
revenged herself.  Suspense--letters from home or from Henry--even verses, or times connected
with the past, would almost certainly bring on the affection; and the heat of the summer had
relaxed her frame, so as to render it even more unable to resist. There had been hope in the
bracing of winter, but the first frosts had brought a chill, and a terrible attack of pleurisy,
so dangerous that her brother had been summoned; she had struggled through, however, and recovered
to a certain point, but there had stopped short, often suffering pain in the side, and never
without panting breath and recurring cough.  This had been a slightly better day, and she had
been lying on the sofa, counting the days to Leonard's next letter, when the well-known voice
fell on her ears, and the one strong effort to control herself had resulted in the frightful
spasms, which had been worse than any Cora had yet witnessed.

'But she will get well, and we shall go home,' said Ella, looking up wistfully into Tom's mournful
face.

'And I shall lose you,' said Cora; 'but indeed I have long seen it was the only thing.  If
I had only known, she never should have come here.'

'No, indeed, I feel that you would have led her to nothing that was not for her good and comfort.'

'Ah! but I did not know,' said Cora; 'I had not been here--and I only thought of my own pleasure
in having her.  But if there is any way of freeing her from this unfortunate speculation without
a dead loss, I will make father tell me.'

This--from Cora's pretty mouth--though only honest and prudent, rather jarred upon Tom in the
midst of his present fears; and he began to prepare for his departure to the inn, after having
sent up Ella to ask for her sister, and hearing that she still slept soundly under the influence
of the opiate.

When Averil awoke it was already morning, and Cora was standing by her bed, with her eyes smiling
with congratulation, like veronicas on a sunny day.

'Cora, is it true?' she said, looking up.

Cora bent down and kissed her, and whispered, 'I wish you joy, my dear.'

'Then it is,' she said; 'it is not all a dream?'

'No dream, dearest.'

'Who said it?' she asked.  'O, Cora, that could not be true!' and the colour rose in her cheek.

'That! yes, Averil, if you mean that we had a visitor last evening. I took him for Leonard,
do you know!  Only I thought his eyes and hair did not quite answer the description.'

'He is a very gentleman-like person.  Did you not think so?' said Averil.

'Ah! Ave, I've heard a great deal.  Don't you think you had better tell me some more?'

'No, no!' exclaimed Averil; 'you are not to think of folly,' as coughing cut her short.

'I'll not think of any more than I can help, except what you tell me.'

'Never think at all, Cora.  Oh! what has brought him here?  I don't know how I can dare to
see him again; and yet he is not gone, is he?'

'Oh no, he is only at the inn.  He is coming back again.'

'I must be up.  Let me get up,' said Averil, raising herself, but pausing from weakness and
breathlessness.

