Mrs. Cornelius Gosling-Green, after haranguing all and sundry, individually and collectively,
on the economic unsoundness, the illogic, and the unsocial influence of War, took to her bed
and stayed there until she found herself totally neglected. Arising and demanding an interview
with the Commandant, she called him to witness that she entered a formal protest against the
whole proceedings and registered her emphatic----until the Commandant, sending for Cornelius
(whose duties cut him off, unrepining, from his wife's society), ordered him to remove her,
silence her, beat her if necessary--and so save her from the unpleasant alternative of solitary
confinement on bread and water until she could be, if not useful, innocuous.

Many a poor woman of humble station proved herself (what most women are) an uncomplaining,
unconsidered heroine, and more than one "subordinate" of mixed ancestry and unpromising exterior,
a brave devoted man. As usual, what kept the flag flying and gave ultimate victory to the immeasurably
weaker side was the spirit, the personality, the force, the power, of one man. 

The other day I saw a fight between some monkeys and about a hundred
crows. The monkeys wounded one poor crow, and it hopped about upon
the ground unable to fly. Then the crows settled around it and tried
to carry it off; but they could not. Even to him, who knew John Robin Ross-Ellison
well, and had known and studied him for some time at Duri and elsewhere, it was a wonderful
thing to see how the quiet, curious, secretive man (albeit a fine athlete, horseman and adventurous
traveller) stepped suddenly into the fierce light of supreme command in time of war, a great,
uncompromising, resourceful ruler of men, skilful strategist and tactician, remarkable both
as organizer, leader, and personal fighter.

Did he ever sleep? Night after night he penetrated into the city disguised as a Pathan (a disguise
he assumed with extraordinary skill and which he strengthened by a perfect knowledge of many
Border dialects as well as of Pushtoo), or else personally led some night attack, sally, reconnaissance
or foraging expedition. Day after day he rode out on Zuleika with the few mounted men at his
command, scouting, reconnoitring, gleaning information, attacking and slaughtering small parties
of marauders as occasion offered.

From him the professional soldier, his adjutant, learned much, and wondered where his Commandant
had learned all he had to teach. Captain Malet-Marsac owned him master, his military as well
as his official superior, and grew to feel towards him as his immediate followers felt toward
Napoleon--to love him with a devoted respect, a respecting devotion. He recognized in him the
born guerrilla leader--and more, the trained guerrilla leader, and wondered where on earth
this strange civilian had garnered his practical military knowledge and skill.

Wherever he went on foot, especially when he slipped out of the Prison for dangerous spy-work
among the forces of the mutineers, rebels, rioters and budmashes of the city, he was followed
by his servant, an African, concerning whom Colonel Ross-Ellison had advised the servants of
the Officers' Mess to be careful and also to bear in mind that he was not a Hubshi. Only when
the Colonel rode forth on horseback was he separated from this man who, when the Colonel was
in his room, invariably slept across the door thereof.

On night expeditions, the Somali would be disguised, sometimes as a leprous beggar, as stable-boy,
again as an Arab, sometimes as a renegade sepoy from a Native Border Levy, sometimes as a poor
fisherman, again as a Sidi boatman, he being, like his master, exceptionally good at disguises
of all kinds, and knowing Hindustani, Arabic, and his native Somal dialect.

He was an expert bugler, and in that capacity stuck like a burr to the Colonel by day, looking
very smart and workmanlike in khaki uniform and being of more than average usefulness with
rifle and bayonet. Not until after the restoration of order did Mr. Edward Jones, formerly
of the Duri High School, long puzzled as to where he had seen him before, realize who he was.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a low dark room, dimly lighted that evening by wick-and-saucer butties, squatted, lay, sat,
stood and sprawled a curious collection of scoundrels. The room was large, and round the four
sides of it ran a very broad, very low, and very filthy divan, intended for the rest and repose
of portly bunnias,[65] seths,[66] brokers, shopkeepers and others of the commercial fraternity,
what time they assembled to chew pan and exchange lies and truths anent money and the markets.
A very different assembly now occupied its greasy lengths vice the former habitués of the salon,
now dispersed, dead, robbed, ruined, held to ransom, or cruelly blackmailed.

  [65] Dealers.
  [66] Money-lenders.

In the seat of honour (an extra cushion), sat the blind faquir who, with his clerkly colleague,
had set the original match to the magazine by inciting the late Mr. Dearman's coolies. Apparently
a relentless, terrible fanatic and bitter hater of the English, for his councils were all of
blood and fire, rapine and slaughter, he taunted his hearers with their supine cowardice in
that the Military Prison still held out, its handful of defenders still manned its walls, nay,
from time to time, made sallies and terrible reprisals upon a careless ill-disciplined enemy.

"Were I but as other men! Had I but mine eyes!" he screamed, "I would overwhelm the place in
an hour. Hundreds to one you are--and you are mocked, robbed, slaughtered."

A thin-faced, evil-looking, squint-eyed Hindu whose large, thick, gold-rimmed goggles accorded
ill with the sword that lay athwart his crossed legs, addressed him in English.

"Easy to talk, Moulvie. Had you your sight you could perhaps drill and arm the mob into an
army, eh? Find them repeating rifles and ammunition, find them officers, find them courage?
Is it not? Yes."

"Hundreds to one, Babu," grunted the blind man, and spat.

"I would urge upon this august assemblee," piped a youthful weedy person, "that recreemination
is not argument, and that many words butter no parsneeps, so to speak. We are met to decide
as to whether the treasure shall be removed to Pirgunge or still we keep it with us here in
view of sudden sallies of foes. I hereby beg to propose and my honourable friend Mister----"

"Sit down, crow," said the blind faquir unkindly and there was a snigger. "The treasure will
be removed at once--this night, or I will remove myself from Gungapur with all my followers--and
go where deeds are being done. I weary of waiting while pi-dogs yelp around the walls they
cannot enter. Cowards! Thousands to one--and ye do not kill two of them a day. Conquer and
slay them? Nay--rather must our own treasure be removed lest some night the devil, in command
there, swoop upon it, driving ye off like sheep and carrying back with him----"

"Flesh and blood cannot face a machine-gun, Moulvie," said the squint-eyed Hindu. "Even your
holy sanctity would scarcely protect you from bullets. Come forth and try to-morrow."

"Nor can flesh and blood--such flesh and blood as Gungapur provides--surround the machine-gun
and rush upon it from flank and rear of course," replied the blind man. "Do machine guns fire
in all directions at once? When they ran the accursed thing down to the market-place and fired
it into the armed crowd that listened to my words, could ye not have fled by other streets
to surround it? Had all rushed bravely from all directions how long would it have fired? Even
thus, could more have died than did die? Scores they slew--and retired but when they could
fire no longer.... And ye allowed it to go because a dozen men stood between it and you----,"
and again the good man spat.

"I do not say 'Sit down, crow' for thou art already sitting," put in a huge, powerful-looking
man, arrayed in a conical puggri-encircled cap, long pink shirt over very baggy peg-top trousers,
and a green waistcoat, "but I weary of thy chatter Blind-Man. Keep thy babble for fools in
the market-place, where, I admit, it hath its uses. Remain our valued and respected talker
and interfere not with fighting men, nor criticize. And say not 'The treasure will be removed
this night,' nor anything else concerning command. I will decide in the matter of the treasure
and I prefer to keep it here under mine hand...."

"Doubtless," sneered the blind man. "Under thy hand--until, in the end, it be found to consist
of boxes of stones and old iron. Look you--the treasure goes to-night or I go, and certain
others go with me. And suppose I change my tune in the market-place, Havildar Nazir Ali Khan,
and say certain words concerning thee and thy designs, give hints of treachery--and where is
the loud-mouthed Nazir Ali Khan?..." and his blind eyes glared cold ferocity at the last speaker
who handled his sword and replied nothing.

The secret of the man's power was clear.

"The treasure will be removed to night," he repeated and a discussion of limes, routes, escort
and other details followed. A dispute arose between the big man addressed as Havildar Nazir
Ali Khan and a squat broad-shouldered Pathan as to the distance and probable time that a convoy,
moving at the rate of laden bullock-carts, would take in reaching Pirgunge.

The short thick-set Pathan turned for confirmation of his estimate to another Pathan, grey-eyed
but obviously a Pathan, nevertheless.

"I say it is five kos and the carts should start at moonrise and arrive before the moon sets."

"You are right, brother," replied the grey-eyed Pathan, who, for his own reasons, particularly
desired that the convoy should move by moonlight. This individual had not spoken hitherto in
the hearing of the blind faquir, and, as he did so now, the blind man turned sharply in his
direction, a look of startled surprise and wonder on his face.

"Who spoke?" he snapped.

But the grey-eyed man arose, yawned hugely, and, arranging his puggri and straightening his
attire, swaggered towards the door of the room, passed out into a high-walled courtyard, exchanged
a few words with the guardian of a low gateway, and emerged into a narrow alley where he was
joined by an African-looking camel-man.

The blind man, listening intently, sat motionless for a minute and then again asked sharply:--

"Who spoke? Who spoke?"

"Many have spoken Pir Saheb," replied the squat Pathan.

"Who said 'You are right, brother,' but now? Who? Quick!" he cried.

"Who? Why, 'twas one of us," replied the squat Pathan. "Yea, 'twas Abdulali Habbibullah, the
money-lender. I have known him long...."

"Let him speak again," said the blind man.

"Where is he? He has gone out, I think," answered the other.

"Call him back, Hidayetullah. Take others and bring him back. I must hear his voice again,"
urged the faquir.

"He will come again, Moulvie Saheb, he is often here," said the short man soothingly. "I know
him well. He will be here to-morrow."

"See, Hidayetullah," said the blind faquir "when next he comes, say then to me, 'May I bring
thee tobacco, Pir Saheb,' if he be sitting near, but say 'May I bring thee tobacco, Moulvie
Saheb,' if he be sitting afar off. If this, speak to him across the room that I may hear his
voice in answer, and call him by his name, Abdulali Habbibullah. And if I should, on a sudden,
cry out 'Hold the door,' do thou draw knife and leap to the door...."

"A spy, Pir Saheb?" asked the interested man.

"That I shall know when next I hear his voice--and, if it be he whom I think, thou shalt scrape
the flesh from the bones of his face with thy knife and put his eyeballs in his mouth. But
he must not die. Nay! Nay!"

The Pathan smiled.

"Thou shalt hear his voice, Pir Saheb," he promised.

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later the African-looking camel-man and the Pathan approached the gates of the Military
Prison and at a distance of a couple of hundred yards the African imitated the cry of a jackal,
the barking of a dog and the call of the "Did-ye-do-it" bird.

Approaching the gate he whispered a countersign and was admitted, the gate being then held
open for the Pathan who followed him at a distance of a hundred yards. Entering Colonel Ross-Ellison's
room the Pathan quickly metamorphosed himself into Colonel Ross-Ellison, and sent for his Adjutant,
Captain Malet-Marsac.

"Fifty of the best, with fifty rounds each, to parade at the gate in half an hour," he said.
"Bruce to accompany me, you to remain in command here. All who can, to wear rubber-soled shoes,
others to go barefoot or bandage their boots with putties over cardboard or paper. No man likely
to cough or sneeze is to go. Luminous-paint discs to be served out to half a dozen. No rations,
no water,--just shirts, shorts and bandoliers. Nothing white or light-coloured to be worn.
Put a strong outpost, all European, under Corporal Faggit on the hill, and double all guards
and sentries. Shove sentry-groups at the top of the Sudder Bazaar, West Street and Edward Road.--You
know all about it.... I've got a good thing on. There'll be a lot of death about to-night,
if all goes well."

Half an hour later Captain Bruce called his company of fifty picked men to "attention" as Colonel
Ross-Ellison approached, the gate was opened and an advance-guard of four men, with four flankers,
marched out and down the road leading to the open country. Then, on some lovely autumn day, when
"the melancholy days are come," and the procession of flowers has nearly passed by, read his verses
"To the Fringed Gentian." There are other poems in the collection quite as easy to understand
as these. Some of the most admired indeed, that would seem "hard" to many a tall youngster at the
head of the school-class, were written in the poet's own boyhood.
His most famous poem, "Thanatopsis," was composed when he was but
eighteen years of age. In silence
the small force advanced for an hour, passed some cross-roads, and then Colonel Ross-Ellison,
who had joined the advance-guard, signalled a halt and moved away by himself to the right of
the road.

In the shadow of the trees, the moon having risen, Captain Bruce ordered his men to lie down,
announcing in a whisper that he would have the life of anyone who made a sound or struck a
match. This was known to be but half in jest, for the Captain was a good disciplinarian and
a man of his word.

Save for the occasional distant bark of the village-dogs, the night was very still. Sitting
staring out into the moon-lit hazy dusk in the direction in which his chief had disappeared,
Captain John Bruce wondered if he were really one of a band of armed men who hoped shortly
to pour some two and a half thousand bullets into other men, really a soldier fighting and
working and starving that the Flag might fly, really a primitive fighting-man with much blood
upon his hands and an earnest desire for more--or whether he were not a respectable Professor
who would shortly wake, beneath mosquito-curtains, from a very dreadful dream. How thin a veneer
was this thing called Civilization, and how unchanged was human nature after centuries and
centuries of----

Colonel Ross-Ellison appeared.

"Bring twenty-five men and follow me. Hurry up," he said quietly, and, a minute later, led
the way from the high-road across country. Five minutes marching brought the party, advancing
in file, to the mouth of a nullah which ran parallel with the road. Along this, Colonel Ross-Ellison
led them, and, when he gave the signal to halt, it was seen that they were behind a high sloping
bank within fifty yards of the high-road.

"Now," said the Colonel to Captain John Bruce, "I'm going to leave you here. Let your men lie
below the top of the bank and if any man looks over, till your command 'Up and fire,' kick
his face in. You will peep through that bit of bush and no one else will move. Do nothing until
I open fire from the other side. The moment I open fire, up your lot come and do the same.
Magazine, of course. The moon will improve as it rises more. You'll fix bayonets and charge
magazines now. I expect a pretty big convoy--and before very long. Probably a mob all round
a couple of bylegharies[67] and a crowd following--everybody distrusting every one, as it is
treasure, looted from all round. Don't shoot the bullocks, but I particularly want to kill
a blind bloke who may be with 'em, so if we charge, barge in too, and look out for a blinder
and don't give him any quarter--give him half instead--half your sword. He's a ringleader--and
I want him for auld lang syne too, as it happens. He doesn't look blind at all, but he would
be led.... Any questions?"

  [67] Bullock-carts.

"No, Sir. I'm to hide till you fire. Then fire, magazine, and charge if you do. A blind man
to be captured if possible. The bullocks not to be shot, if possible."

"Eight O. Carry on," and the Colonel strode back to where the remaining twenty-five waited,
under a Sergeant. These he placed behind an old stone wall that marked the boundary of a once-cultivated
patch of land, some forty yards from the road, to which the ground sloped sharply downwards.

A nice trap if all went well.

All went exceeding well.

Within an hour and a half of the establishment of the ambush, the creaking of ungreased wheels
was heard and the loud nasal singing of some jovial soul. Down the silent deserted road came
three bullock-carts piled high with boxes and escorted by a ragged regiment of ex-sepoys, ex-police,
mutineers, almost a battalion from the forces of the wild Border State neighbouring Gungapur. The
buckets which we have to carry water in have iron hoops. The doors have iron locks. The ink with
which we write has iron in it.

Last, but not least, we have iron in our blood, enough to make a
ten-penny nail.

Suddenly, as the carts crossed a long culvert and the escort perforce massed on to the road,
instead of straggling on either side beneath the trees, a voice said coolly in English "Up
and fire," and as scores of surprised faces turned in the direction of the voice the night
was rent with the crash of fifty rifles pouring in magazine fire at the rate of fifteen rounds
a minute. Magazine fire at less than fifty yards, into a close-packed body of men. Scarcely
a hundred shots were returned and, by the time a couple of thousand rounds had been fired (less
than three minutes), and Colonel Boss-Ellison had cried "Ch-a-a-a-r-ge" there was but little
to charge and not much for the bayonet to do. Of the six bullocks four were uninjured.

"Load as many boxes as you can on two carts, and leave half a dozen men to bring them in. They'll
have to take their chance. We must get back ek dum,"[68] said Colonel Ross-Ellison.

  [68] At once.

Even as he spoke, the sound of distant firing fell upon the ears of the party and the unmistakable
stammer-hammer racket of the maxim.

"They're attacked, by Jove," he cried. "I thought it likely. There may have been an idea that
we should know something of this convoy and go for it. All ready? Now a steady double. We'll
double and quick-march alternately. Double march."

       *       *       *       *       *

Near the Military Prison was a low conical hill, bare of vegetation and buildings, a feature
of the situation which was a constant source of anxiety to Colonel Ross-Ellison, for he realized
that life in the beleaguered fortress would be very much harder, and the casualty rate very
much higher, if the enemy had the sense to occupy it in strength and fire down into the Prison.
Against this contingency he always maintained a picket there at night and a special sentry
to watch it by day, and he had caused deep trenches to be dug and a covered way made in the
Prison compound, so that the fire-swept area could be crossed, when necessary, with the minimum
of risk. Until the night of the convoy-sortie, however, the enemy had not had the ordinary
common sense to grasp the fact that the hill was the key of the situation and to seize it.

"Bloomin' cold up 'ere, Privit Greens, wot?" observed Corporal Horace Faggit to the famous
Mr. Cornelius Gosling-Green, M.P., in kindly and condescending manner, as he placed him back
to back with Private Augustus Grobble on the hill-top. "But you'll keep awake all the better
for that, me lad.... Now you other four men can go to sleep, see? You'll lie right close up
agin the feet o' Privits Greens an' Grabbles, and when they've done their two hours, they'll
jes' give two o' you a kick and them two'll rise up an' take their plaices while they goes
to sleep. Then them two'll waike 'tother two, see? An' if hannyone approaches, the sentry as
is faicin' 'im will 'olleraht 'Alt! 'Oo comes there?' an' if the bloke or blokes say, 'Friend,'
then 'e'll say 'Hadvance one an' give the countersign,' and if he can't give no countersign,
then blow 'is bleedin' 'ead off, see?... Now I shall visit yer from time to time, an' let me
find you spry an' smart with yer,' 'Alt,' 'Oo comes there? see? An' if either sentry sees anythink
suspicious down below there--let 'im send the other sentry across fer me over in the picket
there, see? 'E'll waike up the others meanwhile an' they'll all watch out till I comes and
gives orders, see? An' if you're attacked afore I come, then retire firing. Retire on the picket,
see? We won't shoot yer. Don't make a bloomin' blackguard-rush for the picket though. Jest
retire one by one firin' steady, see? Now I'm goin' back to the picket. Ow! an' don' fergit
the reconnoitrin' patrol. Don' go an' shoot at 'em as they comes back. 'Alt 'em for the countersign
as they comes out, and 'alt 'em fer it agin as they comes in, see? Right O. Now you keep yer
eyes skinned, Greens and Grobbles."

Private Cornelius Gosling-Green, M.P., had never looked really impressive even on the public
platform in over-long frock-coat and turned-down collar. In ill-fitting khaki, ammunition boots,
a helmet many sizes too big, and badly-wound putties, he looked an extremely absurd object.
Private Augustus Grobble looked a little more convincing, inasmuch as his fattish figure filled
his uniform, but the habit of wearing his helmet on the back of his neck and a general congenital
unmilitariness of habit and bearing, operated against success.

Two unhappier men rarely stood back to back upon a lonely, windy hill-top. Both were very hungry,
very sleepy and very cold, both were essentially men of peace, and both had powerful imaginations--especially
of horrors happening to their cherished selves.

Both were dealers in words; neither was conversant with things, facts, deeds, and all that
lay outside their inexpressibly artificial and specialized little spheres. Each had been "educated"
out of physical manliness, self-reliance, courage, practical usefulness, adaptability, "grit"
and the plain virile virtues.

Cornelius burned with a peevish indignation that he, writer of innumerable pamphlets, speaker
at innumerable meetings, organizer of innumerable societies, compiler of innumerable statistics,
author of innumerable letters to the press, he, husband of the famous suffragist worker, speaker,
organizer and leader, Superiora Gosling-Green (a Pounding-Pobble of the Pounding-Pobbles of
Putney), that he, Cornelius Gosling-Green, Esq., M.P., should be stuck there like a common
soldier, with a heavy and dangerous gun and a nasty sharp-pointed bayonet, to stand and shiver
while others slept. Alas!' and it was such a strong impression that I put my hand to my own heart
and held on there, while I laid my head on one side till it touched the feathers of the bird
on my shoulder; and so we sat silently musing.
"What do you think roused us? His Superiora did all the coercing he wanted and more too. He would enter a
formal protest and tender his resignation. He had always, hitherto, been able to protest and
resign when things did not go as he wished.

He yawned, and again.

"I can see as well sitting or kneeling as I can standing," he remarked to Private Augustus Grobble.

"It is a great physiological truth," replied Augustus, and they both sat down, leaning against
each other for warmth and support, back to back.

The soul of Augustus was filled with a melancholy sadness and a gentle woe. To think that he,
the loved of many beautiful Wimmin should be suffering such hardships and running such risks.
How his face was falling in and how the wrinkles were gathering round his eyes. Some of the
beautiful and frail, of whom he thought when he gave his usual toast after dinner, "To the
Wimmin who have loved me," would hardly recognize the fair boy over whom they had raved, whose
poems they had loved, whose hair, finger-nails, eyes, ties, socks and teeth they had complimented.
A cruel, cruel waste. But how rather romantic--the war-worn soldier! He who knew his Piccadilly,
Night Clubs, the theatres, the haunts of fair women and brave men, standing, no--sitting, on
a lonely hill-top watching, watching, the lives of the garrison in his hands.... He would return
to those haunts, bronzed, lined, hardened--the man from the edge of the Empire, from the back
of Beyond, the man who had Done Things--and talk of camp-fires, the trek, the Old Trail, smells
of sea and desert and jungle, and the man-stifled town, ... battle, ... brave deeds ... unrecognized
heroism ... a medal ... perhaps the ... and the nodding head of Augustus settled upon his chest.

His deep breathing and occasional snores did not attract the attention of Private Gosling-Green,
as Private Gosling-Green was sound asleep. Nor did they awaken the weary four who made up the
sentry group--Edward Jones, educationist; Henry Grigg, barber; Walter Smith, shopman; Reginald
Ladon Gurr, Head of a Department--and whose right it was to sleep so long as two of the six
watched.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Let there be no mistake then," said the burly Havildar Nazir Ali Khan to one Hidayetulla,
squat thick-set Pathan, "at the first shot from the hill your party, ceasing to crawl, will
rush upon the picket, and mine will swoop upon the gate bearing the tins of kerosene oil, the
faggots and the brushwood. All those with guns will fire at the walls save the Border State
company who will reserve their fire till the gate is opened or burnt down. The dogs within
must either open it to extinguish the fire, or it must burn. On their volley, all others will
charge for the gate with knife and sword. Do thou win the hill-top and keep up a heavy fire
into the Prison. There will be Lee-Metford rifles and ammunition there ready for thy taking--ha-ha!"

"And if we are seen and fired on as we stalk the picket on the hill?"

"Then their first shot will, as I said, be the signal for your rush and ours. Understandest thou?"

"I understand. 'Tis a good plan of the blind Moulvie's."

"Aye! He can plan,--and talk. We can go and be shot, and be blamed if his plans miscarry,"
grumbled the big man, and added, "How many have you?"

"About forty," was the reply, "and all Khost men save seven, of whom four are Afghans of Cabul,
two are Punjabis, and one a Sikh."

"Is it three hours since the treasure started? That was the time the Moulvie fixed for the attack."

"It must be, perhaps," replied the other. "Let us begin. But what if the hill be not held,
or if we capture it with the knife, none firing a shot?"

