 For, notwithstanding
all the centrifugal forces of this age, it is probable that the home will continue to be the
fulcrum on which women will move the world.

It may be objected that it would be unfair to add this opportunity to the already, overpowering
attractions of woman, and that man would be put at an immense disadvantage, since he might
have too much gallantry, or not enough presence of mind, to refuse a proposal squarely and
fascinatingly made, although his judgment scarcely consented, and his ability to support a
wife were more than doubtful. Women would need to exercise a great deal of prudence and discretion,
or there would be something like a panic, and a cry along the male line of 'Sauve qui peut';
for it is matter of record that the bravest men will sometimes run away from danger on a sudden
impulse.

This prospective social revolution suggests many inquiries. What would be the effect upon the
female character and disposition of a possible, though not probable, refusal, or of several
refusals? Would she become embittered and desperate, and act as foolishly as men often do?
Would her own sex be considerate, and give her a fair field if they saw she was paying attention
to a young man, or an old one? And what effect would this change in relations have upon men?
Would it not render that sporadic shyness of which we have spoken epidemic? Would it frighten
men, rendering their position less stable in their own eyes, or would it feminize them--that
is, make them retiring, blushing, self-conscious beings? And would this change be of any injury
to them in their necessary fight for existence in this pushing world? What would be the effect
upon courtship if both the men and the women approached each other as wooers? In ordinary transactions
one is a buyer and one is a seller--to put it coarsely. If seller met seller and buyer met
buyer, trade would languish. But this figure cannot be continued, for there is no romance in
a bargain of any sort; and what we should most fear in a scientific age is the loss of romance.

This is, however, mere speculation. The serious aspect of the proposed change is the effect
it will have upon the character of men, who are not enough considered in any of these discussions.
The revolution will be a radical one in one respect. We may admit that in the future woman
can take care of herself, but how will it be with man, who has had little disciplinary experience
of adversity, simply because he has been permitted to have his own way? Heretofore his life
has had a stimulus. We were thirteen at table; and you, my dear Duchess, were the cause of it.
But it is very wrong of me to show so much weakness before him. Farewell, my child; give me
your forehead to kiss, and may God conduct you! Be worthy of your
name and of your father." I offer you this love
because I feel the courage and responsibility of my position." That is the manly part of it.
What effect will it have upon his character to be waiting round, unselected and undecided,
until some woman comes to him, and fixes her fascinating eyes upon him, and says, in effect:
"I can support you; I can defend you. Have no fear of the future; I will be at once your shield
and your backbone. I take the responsibility of my choice." There are a great many men now,
who have sneaked into their positions by a show of courage, who are supported one way and another
by women. It might be humiliating to know just how many men live by the labors of their wives.
And what would be the effect upon the character of man if the choice, and the responsibility
of it, and the support implied by it in marriage, were generally transferred to woman?

FROCKS AND THE STAGE

The condescension to literature and to the stage is one of the notable characteristics of this
agreeable time. We have to admit that literature is rather the fashion, without the violent
presumption that the author and the writer have the same social position that is conferred
by money, or by the mysterious virtue there is in pedigree. A person does not lose caste by
using the pen, or even by taking the not-needed pay for using it. To publish a book or to have
an article accepted by a magazine may give a sort of social distinction, either as an exhibition
of a certain unexpected capacity or a social eccentricity. It is hardly too much to say that
it has become the fashion to write, as it used to be to dance the minuet well, or to use the
broadsword, or to stand a gentlemanly mill with a renowned bruiser. Of course one ought not
to do this professionally exactly, ought not to prepare for doing it by study and severe discipline,
by training for it as for a trade, but simply to toss it off easily, as one makes a call, or
pays a compliment, or drives four-in-hand. One does not need to have that interior impulse
which drives a poor devil of an author to express himself, that something to say which torments
the poet into extreme irritability unless he can be rid of it, that noble hunger for fame which
comes from a consciousness of the possession of vital thought and emotion.

The beauty of this condescension to literature of which we speak is that it has that quality
of spontaneity that does not presuppose either a capacity or a call. There is no mystery about
the craft. One resolves to write a book, as he might to take a journey or to practice on the
piano, and the thing is done. Everybody can write, at least everybody does write. It is a wonderful
time for literature. The Queen of England writes for it, the Queen of Roumania writes for it,
the Shah of Persia writes for it, Lady Brassey, the yachtswoman, wrote for it, Congressmen
write for it, peers write for it. The novel is the common recreation of ladies of rank, and
where is the young woman in this country who has not tried her hand at a romance or made a
cast at a popular magazine? The effect of all this upon literature is expansive and joyous.
Superstition about any mystery in the art has nearly disappeared. It is a common observation
that if persons fail in everything else, if they are fit for nothing else, they can at least
write. It is such an easy occupation, and the remuneration is in such disproportion to the
expenditure! Isn't it indeed the golden era of letters? If only the letters were gold!

If there is any such thing remaining as a guild of authors, somewhere on the back seats, witnessing
this marvelous Kingdom Come of Literature, there must also be a little bunch of actors, born
for the stage, who see with mixed feelings their arena taken possession of by fairer if not
more competent players. These players are not to be confounded with the play-actors whom the
Puritans denounced, nor with those trained to the profession in the French capital.

In the United States and in England we are born to enter upon any avocation, thank Heaven!
without training for it. We have not in this country any such obstacle to universal success
as the Theatre Francais, but Providence has given us, for wise purposes no doubt, Private Theatricals
(not always so private as they should be), which domesticate the drama, and supply the stage
with some of the most beautiful and best dressed performers the world has ever seen. Whatever
they may say of it, it is a gallant and a susceptible age, and all men bow to loveliness, and
all women recognize a talent for clothes. We do not say that there is not such a thing as dramatic
art, and that there are not persons who need as severe training before they attempt to personate
nature in art as the painter must undergo who attempts to transfer its features to his canvas.
But the taste of the age must be taken into account. The public does not demand that an actor
shall come in at a private door and climb a steep staircase to get to the stage. When a Star
from the Private Theatricals descends upon the boards, with the arms of Venus and the throat
of Juno, and a wardrobe got out of Paris and through our stingy Custom-house in forty trunks,
the plodding actor, who has depended upon art, finds out, what he has been all the time telling
us, that all the world's a stage, and men and women merely players. Art is good in its way;
but what about a perfect figure? and is not dressing an art? Can training give one an elegant
form, and study command the services of a man milliner? The stage is broadened out and re-enforced
by a new element. What went ye out for to see?

A person clad in fine raiment, to be sure. Some of the critics may growl a little, and hint
at the invasion of art by fashionable life, but the editor, whose motto is that the newspaper
is made for man, not man for the newspaper, understands what is required in this inspiring
histrionic movement, and when a lovely woman condescends to step from the drawing-room to the
stage he confines his descriptions to her person, and does not bother about her capacity; and
instead of wearying us with a list of her plays and performances, he gives us a column about
her dresses in beautiful language that shows us how closely allied poetry is to tailoring.
Can the lady act? Why, simpleminded, she has nearly a hundred frocks, each one a dream, a conception
of genius, a vaporous idea, one might say, which will reveal more beauty than it hides, and
teach the spectator that art is simply nature adorned. Rachel in all her glory was not adorned
like one of these. We have changed all that. The actress used to have a rehearsal. She now
has an "opening." Does it require nowadays, then, no special talent or gift to go on the stage?
No more, we can assure our readers, than it does to write a book. But homely people and poor
people can write books. As yet they cannot act.

ALTRUISM

Christmas is supposed to be an altruistic festival. Then, if ever, we allow ourselves to go
out to others in sympathy expressed by gifts and good wishes. Then self-forgetfulness in the
happiness of others becomes a temporary fashion. And we find--do we not?--the indulgence of
the feeling so remunerative that we wish there were other days set apart to it. We can even
understand those people who get a private satisfaction in being good on other days besides
Sunday. There is a common notion that this Christmas altruistic sentiment is particularly shown
towards the unfortunate and the dependent by those more prosperous, and in what is called a
better social position. We are exhorted on this day to remember the poor. We need to be reminded
rather to remember the rich, the lonely, not-easy-to-be-satisfied rich, whom we do not always
have with us. The Drawer never sees a very rich person that it does not long to give him something,
some token, the value of which is not estimated by its cost, that should be a consoling evidence
to him that he has not lost sympathetic touch with ordinary humanity. There is a great deal
of sympathy afloat in the world, but it is especially shown downward in the social scale. We
treat our servants--supposing that we are society --better than we treat each other. If we
did not, they would leave us. We are kinder to the unfortunate or the dependent than to each
other, and we have more charity for them.

The Drawer is not indulging in any indiscriminate railing at society. There is society and
society. There is that undefined something, more like a machine than an aggregate of human
sensibilities, which is set going in a "season," or at a watering-place, or permanently selects
itself for certain social manifestations. It is this that needs a missionary to infuse into
it sympathy and charity. If it were indeed a machine and not made up of sensitive personalities,
it would not be to its members so selfish and cruel. It would be less an ambitious scramble
for place and favor, less remorseless towards the unsuccessful, not so harsh and hard and supercilious. It
is found at the bottom of the well, where it never intrudes itself on general observation.

The Americans have no fixed character as a nation, and how can they? The slave-holding cavaliers of
the South have little in common with the mercantile North; the cultivators and hewers of the western
forests are wholly dissimilar from the enterprising traders of the
eastern coast; republicanism is not always democracy, and democracy
is not always locofocoism; a gentleman is not always a loafer, although
certainly a loafer is never a gentleman. Nothing can be ruder
or less considerate of the feelings of others than much of that which is called good society,
and this is why the Drawer desires to turn the altruistic sentiment of the world upon it in
this season, set apart by common consent for usefulness. Unfortunate are the fortunate if they
are lifted into a sphere which is sapless of delicacy of feeling for its own. Is this an intangible
matter? Take hospitality, for instance. Does it consist in astonishing the invited, in overwhelming
him with a sense of your own wealth, or felicity, or family, or cleverness even; in trying
to absorb him in your concerns, your successes, your possessions, in simply what interests
you? However delightful all these may be, it is an offense to his individuality to insist that
he shall admire at the point of the social bayonet. How do you treat the stranger? Do you adapt
yourself and your surroundings to him, or insist that he shall adapt himself to you? How often
does the stranger, the guest, sit in helpless agony in your circle (all of whom know each other)
at table or in the drawing-room, isolated and separate, because all the talk is local and personal,
about your little world, and the affairs of your clique, and your petty interests, in which
he or she cannot possibly join? Ah! the Sioux Indian would not be so cruel as that to a guest.
There is no more refined torture to a sensitive person than that. Is it only thoughtlessness?
It is more than that. It is a want of sympathy of the heart, or it is a lack of intelligence
and broad-minded interest in affairs of the world and in other people. It is this trait--absorption
in self--pervading society more or less, that makes it so unsatisfactory to most people in
it. Just a want of human interest; people do not come in contact.

Avid pursuit of wealth, or what is called pleasure, perhaps makes people hard to each other,
and infuses into the higher social life, which should be the most unselfish and enjoyable life,
a certain vulgarity, similar to that noticed in well-bred tourists scrambling for the seats
on top of a mountain coach. A person of refinement and sensibility and intelligence, cast into
the company of the select, the country-house, the radiant, twelve-button society, has been
struck with infinite pity for it, and asks the Drawer to do something about it. The Drawer
cannot do anything about it. It can only ask the prayers of all good people on Christmas Day
for the rich. As we said, we do not have them with us always--they are here today, they are
gone to Canada tomorrow. But this is, of course, current facetiousness. The rich are as good
as anybody else, according to their lights, and if what is called society were as good and
as kind to itself as it is to the poor, it would be altogether enviable. We are not of those
who say that in this case, charity would cover a multitude of sins, but a diffusion in society
of the Christmas sentiment of goodwill and kindliness to itself would tend to make universal
the joy on the return of this season. 

"Alas, who else should it be?

Who else would return like a criminal to his paternal house, without entering it, without bidding
one more adieu to his mother? Who else would return to complain of the present, without a
hope for the future, but I?" They indeed
represent these usages to be a burden almost intolerable, and yet they submit to them with
a grace and endurance all their own. Probably there is no harder-worked person than a lady
in the season, let us say in Washington, where the etiquette of visiting is carried to a perfection
that it does not reach even in New York, Boston, or Philadelphia, and where woman's effort
to keep the social fabric together requires more expenditure of intellect and of physical force
than was needed to protect the capital in its peril a quarter of a century ago. When this cruel
war is over, the monument to the women who perished in it will need to be higher than that
to the Father of his Country. Merely in the item of keeping an account of the visits paid and
due, a woman needs a bookkeeper. Only to know the etiquette of how and when and to whom and
in what order the visits are to be paid is to be well educated in a matter that assumes the
first importance in her life. This is, however, only a detail of bookkeeping and of memory;
to pay and receive, or evade, these visits of ceremony is a work which men can admire without
the power to imitate; even on the supposition that a woman has nothing else to do, it calls
for our humble gratitude and a recognition of the largeness of nature that can put aside any
duties to husband or children in devotion to the public welfare. The futile round of society
life while it lasts admits of no rival. It seems as important as the affairs of the government.
The Drawer is far from saying that it is not. Perhaps no one can tell what confusion would
fall into all the political relations if the social relations of the capital were not kept
oiled by the system of exchange of fictitious courtesies among the women; and it may be true
that society at large--men are so apt, when left alone, to relapse--would fall into barbarism
if our pasteboard conventions were neglected. All honor to the self-sacrifice of woman!

What a beautiful civilization ours is, supposed to be growing in intelligence and simplicity,
and yet voluntarily taking upon itself this artificial burden in an already overtaxed life!
The angels in heaven must admire and wonder. The cynic wants to know what is gained for any
rational being when a city-full of women undertake to make and receive formal visits with persons
whom for the most part they do not wish to see. What is gained, he asks, by leaving cards with
all these people and receiving their cards? When a woman makes her tedious rounds, why is she
always relieved to find people not in? When she can count upon her ten fingers the people she
wants to see, why should she pretend to want to see the others? Is any one deceived by it?
Does anybody regard it as anything but a sham and a burden? Much the cynic knows about it!
Is it not necessary to keep up what is called society? Is it not necessary to have an authentic
list of pasteboard acquaintances to invite to the receptions? And what would become of us without
Receptions? Everybody likes to give them. Everybody flocks to them with much alacrity. When
society calls the roll, we all know the penalty of being left out. Is there any intellectual
or physical pleasure equal to that of jamming so many people into a house that they can hardly
move, and treating them to a Babel of noises in which no one can make herself heard without
screaming? There is nothing like a reception in any uncivilized country. It is so exhilarating!
When a dozen or a hundred people are gathered together in a room, they all begin to raise their
voices and to shout like pool-sellers in the noble rivalry of "warious langwidges," rasping
their throats into bronchitis in the bidding of the conversational ring. If they spoke low,
or even in the ordinary tone, conversation would be possible. But then it would not be a reception,
as we understand it. We cannot neglect anywhere any of the pleasures of our social life. We
train for it in lower assemblies. Half a dozen women in a "call" are obliged to shout, just
for practice, so that they can be heard by everybody in the neighborhood except themselves.
Do not men do the same? If they do, it only shows that men also are capable of the higher civilization.

But does society--that is, the intercourse of congenial people--depend upon the elaborate system
of exchanging calls with hundreds of people who are not congenial? Such thoughts will sometimes
come by a winter fireside of rational-talking friends, or at a dinner-party not too large for
talk without a telephone, or in the summer-time by the sea, or in the cottage in the hills,
when the fever of social life has got down to a normal temperature. We fancy that sometimes
people will give way to a real enjoyment of life and that human intercourse will throw off
this artificial and wearisome parade, and that if women look back with pride, as they may,
upon their personal achievements and labors, they will also regard them with astonishment.
Women, we read every day, long for the rights and privileges of men, and the education and
serious purpose in life of men. And yet, such is the sweet self-sacrifice of their nature,
they voluntarily take on burdens which men have never assumed, and which they would speedily
cast off if they had. What should we say of men if they consumed half their time in paying
formal calls upon each other merely for the sake of paying calls, and were low-spirited if
they did not receive as many cards as they had dealt out to society? Have they not the time?
Have women more time? and if they have, why should they spend it in this Sisyphus task? Would
the social machine go to pieces--the inquiry is made in good faith, and solely for information--if
they made rational business for themselves to be attended to, or even if they gave the time
now given to calls they hate to reading and study, and to making their household civilizing
centres of intercourse and enjoyment, and paid visits from some other motive than "clearing
off their list"? If all the artificial round of calls and cards should tumble down, what valuable
thing would be lost out of anybody's life?

The question is too vast for the Drawer, but as an experiment in sociology it would like to
see the system in abeyance for one season. If at the end of it there had not been just as much
social enjoyment as before, and there were not fewer women than usual down with nervous prostration,
it would agree to start at its own expense a new experiment, to wit, a kind of Social Clearing-House,
in which all cards should be delivered and exchanged, and all social debts of this kind be
balanced by experienced bookkeepers, so that the reputation of everybody for propriety and
conventionality should be just as good as it is now.

DINNER-TABLE TALK

Many people suppose that it is the easiest thing in the world to dine if you can get plenty
to eat. This error is the foundation of much social misery. The world that never dines, and
fancies it has a grievance justifying anarchy on that account, does not know how much misery
it escapes. A great deal has been written about the art of dining. From time to time geniuses
have appeared who knew how to compose a dinner; indeed, the art of doing it can be learned,
as well as the art of cooking and serving it. It is often possible, also, under extraordinarily
favorable conditions, to select a company congenial and varied and harmonious enough to dine
together successfully. The tact for getting the right people together is perhaps rarer than
the art of composing the dinner. But it exists. And an elegant table with a handsome and brilliant
company about it is a common conjunction in this country. Instructions are not wanting as to
the shape of the table and the size of the party; it is universally admitted that the number
must be small. The big dinner-parties which are commonly made to pay off social debts are generally
of the sort that one would rather contribute to in money than in personal attendance. When
the dinner is treated as a means of discharging obligations, it loses all character, and becomes
one of the social inflictions. While there is nothing in social intercourse so agreeable and
inspiring as a dinner of the right sort, society has invented no infliction equal to a large
dinner that does not "go," as the phrase is. Why it does not go when the viands are good and
the company is bright is one of the acknowledged mysteries.

There need be no mystery about it. The social instinct and the social habit are wanting to
a great many people of uncommon intelligence and cultivation--that sort of flexibility or adaptability
that makes agreeable society. But this even does not account for the failure of so many promising
dinners. The secret of this failure always is that the conversation is not general. The sole
object of the dinner is talk--at least in the United States, where "good eating" is pretty
common, however it may be in England, whence come rumors occasionally of accomplished men who
decline to be interrupted by the frivolity of talk upon the appearance of favorite dishes.
And private talk at a table is not the sort that saves a dinner; however good it is, it always
kills it. The chance of arrangement is that the people who would like to talk together are
not neighbors; and if they are, they exhaust each other to weariness in an hour, at least of
topics which can be talked about with the risk of being overheard. A duet to be agreeable must
be to a certain extent confidential, and the dinner-table duet admits of little except generalities,
and generalities between two have their limits of entertainment. Then there is the awful possibility
that the neighbors at table may have nothing to say to each other; and in the best-selected
company one may sit beside a stupid man--that is, stupid for the purpose of a 'tete-a-tete'.
But this is not the worst of it. No one can talk well without an audience; no one is stimulated
to say bright things except by the attention and questioning and interest of other minds. There
is little inspiration in side talk to one or two. Nobody ought to go to a dinner who is not
a good listener, and, if possible, an intelligent one. To listen with a show of intelligence
is a great accomplishment. It is not absolutely essential that there should be a great talker
or a number of good talkers at a dinner if all are good listeners, and able to "chip in" a
little to the general talk that springs up. For the success of the dinner does not necessarily
depend upon the talk being brilliant, but it does depend upon its being general, upon keeping
the ball rolling round the table; the old-fashioned game becomes flat when the balls all disappear
into private pockets. They would have no objection to see a British prince on the Canadian throne,
or a British viceroy sitting at the council board of Montreal, but they want to be governed without
the intervention of the colonial office; and perhaps, rather than not have the loaves and
fishes at their own entire disposal, they would in the end go so far as to desire entire separation
from the Mother Country, and seek the armed protection of that enormous power which is so rapidly rising
into notice on their borders. Is not this, O brothers and sisters,
an evil under the sun, this dinner as it is apt to be conducted? Think of the weary hours you
have given to a rite that should be the highest social pleasure! How often when a topic is
started that promises well, and might come to something in a general exchange of wit and fancy,
and some one begins to speak on it, and speak very well, too, have you not had a lady at your
side cut in and give you her views on it--views that might be amusing if thrown out into the
discussion, but which are simply impertinent as an interruption! How often when you have tried
to get a "rise" out of somebody opposite have you not had your neighbor cut in across you with
some private depressing observation to your next neighbor! Private talk at a dinner-table is
like private chat at a parlor musicale, only it is more fatal to the general enjoyment. There
is a notion that the art of conversation, the ability to talk well, has gone out. That is a
great mistake. Opportunity is all that is needed. There must be the inspiration of the clash
of minds and the encouragement of good listening. In an evening round the fire, when couples
begin, to whisper or talk low to each other, it is time to put out the lights. Inspiring interest
is gone. The most brilliant talker in the world is dumb. People whose idea of a dinner is private
talk between seat-neighbors should limit the company to two. They have no right to spoil what
can be the most agreeable social institution that civilization has evolved.

NATURALIZATION

Is it possible for a person to be entirely naturalized?--that is, to be denationalized, to
cast off the prejudice and traditions of one country and take up those of another; to give
up what may be called the instinctive tendencies of one race and take up those of another.
It is easy enough to swear off allegiance to a sovereign or a government, and to take on in
intention new political obligations, but to separate one's self from the sympathies into which
he was born is quite another affair. One is likely to remain in the inmost recesses of his
heart an alien, and as a final expression of his feeling to hoist the green flag, or the dragon,
or the cross of St. George. Probably no other sentiment is, so strong in a man as that of attachment
to his own soil and people, a sub-sentiment always remaining, whatever new and unbreakable
attachments he may form. One can be very proud of his adopted country, and brag for it, and
fight for it; but lying deep in a man's nature is something, no doubt, that no oath nor material
interest can change, and that is never naturalized. We see this experiment in America more
than anywhere else, because here meet more different races than anywhere else with the serious
intention of changing their nationality. And we have a notion that there is something in our
atmosphere, or opportunities, or our government, that makes this change more natural and reasonable
than it has been anywhere else in history. It is always a surprise to us when a born citizen
of the United States changes his allegiance, but it seems a thing of course that a person of
any other country should, by an oath, become a good American, and we expect that the act will
work a sudden change in him equal to that wrought in a man by what used to be called a conviction
of sin. We expect that he will not only come into our family, but that he will at once assume
all its traditions and dislikes, that whatever may have been his institutions or his race quarrels,
the moving influence of his life hereafter will be the "Spirit of '76."

