THE BIOGRAPHY OF A GRIZZLY

and

75 Drawings

by

ERNEST SETON-THOMPSON

Author of: The Trail of the Sandhill Stag Wild Animals I Have Known Art Anatomy of Animals
Mammals of Manitoba Birds of Manitoba

1899

This Book is dedicated to the memory of the days spent at the Palette Ranch on the Graybull,
where from hunter, miner, personal experience, and the host himself, I gathered many chapters
of the History of Wahb.

 In this Book the designs for title-page, cover, and
general makeup, were done by Mrs. Grace Gallatin Seton-Thompson.

 List of Full-Page Drawings

They all Rushed Under it like a Lot of Little Pigs

Like Children Playing 'Hands'

He Stayed in the Tree till near Morning

A Savage Bobcat ... Warned Him to go Back

Wahb Yelled and Jerked Back

He Struck one Fearful, Crushing Blow

Ain't He an Awful Size, Though?

Wahb Smashed His Skull

Causing the Pool to Overflow

He Deliberately Stood up on the Pine Root

The Roachback Fled into the Woods

He Paused a Moment at the Gate

PART I

THE CUBHOOD OF WAHB

I.

He was born over a score of years ago, away up in the wildest part of the wild West, on the
head of the Little Piney, above where the Palette Ranch is now.

His Mother was just an ordinary Silvertip, living the quiet life that all Bears prefer, minding
her own business and doing her duty by her family, asking no favors of any one excepting to
let her alone. It was July before she took her remarkable family down the Little Piney to the
Graybull, and showed them what strawberries were, and where to find them.

Notwithstanding their Mother's deep conviction, the cubs were not remarkably big or bright;
yet they were a remarkable family, for there were four of them, and it is not often a Grizzly
Mother can boast of more than two.

The woolly-coated little creatures were having a fine time, and reveled in the lovely mountain
summer and the abundance of good things. Their Mother turned over each log and flat stone they
came to, and the moment it was lifted they all rushed under it like a lot of little pigs to
lick up the ants and grubs there hidden.

It never once occurred to them that Mammy's strength might fail sometime, and let the great
rock drop just as they got under it; nor would any one have thought so that might have chanced
to see that huge arm and that shoulder sliding about under the great yellow robe she wore.
No, no; that arm could never fail. The little ones were quite right. So they hustled and tumbled
one another at each fresh log in their haste to be first, and squealed little squeals, and
growled little growls, as if each was a pig, a pup, and a kitten all rolled into one.

They were well acquainted with the common little brown ants that harbor under logs in the uplands,
but now they came for the first time on one of the hills of the great, fat, luscious Wood-ant,
and they all crowded around to lick up those that ran out. But they soon found that they were
licking up more cactus-prickles and sand than ants, till their Mother said in Grizzly, "Let
me show you how."

She knocked off the top of the hill, then laid her great paw flat on it for a few moments,
and as the angry ants swarmed on to it she licked them up with one lick, and got a good rich
mouthful to crunch, without a grain of sand or a cactus-stinger in it. The cubs soon learned.
Each put up both his little brown paws, so that there was a ring of paws all around the ant-hill,
and there they sat, like children playing 'hands,' and each licked first the right and then
the left paw, or one cuffed his brother's ears for licking a paw that was not his own, till
the ant-hill was cleared out and they were ready for a change.

Ants are sour food and made the Bears thirsty, so the old one led down to the river. After
they had drunk as much as they wanted, and dabbled their feet, they walked down the bank to
a pool, where the old one's keen eye caught sight of a number of Buffalo-fish basking on the
bottom. The water was very low, mere pebbly rapids between these deep holes, so Mammy said
to the little ones:

"Now you all sit there on the bank and learn something new."

First she went to the lower end of the pool and stirred up a cloud of mud which hung in the
still water, and sent a long tail floating like a curtain over the rapids just below. Then
she went quietly round by land, and sprang into the upper end of the pool with all the noise
she could. The fish had crowded to that end, but this sudden attack sent them off in a panic,
and they dashed blindly into the mud-cloud. Out of fifty fish there is always a good chance
of some being fools, and half a dozen of these dashed through the darkened water into the current,
and before they knew it they were struggling over the shingly shallow. The old Grizzly jerked
them out to the bank, and the little ones rushed noisily on these funny, short snakes that
could not get away, and gobbled and gorged till their little bellies looked like balloons.

They had eaten so much now, and the sun was so hot, that all were quite sleepy. So the Mother-bear
led them to a quiet little nook, and as soon as she lay down, though they were puffing with
heat, they all snuggled around her and went to sleep, with their little brown paws curled in,
and their little black noses tucked into their wool as though it were a very cold day.

After an hour or two they began to yawn and stretch themselves, except little Fuzz, the smallest;
she poked out her sharp nose for a moment, then snuggled back between her Mother's great arms,
for she was a gentle, petted little thing. The largest, the one afterward known as Wahb, sprawled
over on his back and began to worry a root that stuck up, grumbling to himself as he chewed
it, or slapped it with his paw for not staying where he wanted it. Presently Mooney, the mischief,
began tugging at Frizzle's ears, and got his own well boxed. They clenched for a tussle; then,
locked in a tight, little grizzly yellow ball, they sprawled over and over on the grass, and,
before they knew it, down a bank, and away out of sight toward the river.

Almost immediately there was an outcry of yells for help from the little wrestlers. There could
be no mistaking the real terror in their voices. Some dreadful danger was threatening.

Up jumped the gentle Mother, changed into a perfect demon, and over the bank in time to see
a huge Range-bull make a deadly charge at what he doubtless took for a yellow dog. Those who have
need of others, whom others amuse, engage soothe, whom solitude harasses, pains, stupefies,
like the movement of a terrible glacier or the traversing of the desert; and those, on the contrary,
whom others weary, tire, bore, silently torture, whom isolation calms and bathes in the repose
of independency, and plunges into the humors of their own thoughts. In fine, there is here
a normal, physical phenomenon. Some are constituted to live a life outside of themselves, others,
to live a life within themselves. As for me, my exterior associations are abruptly and painfully
short-lived, and, as they reach their limits, I experience in my
whole body and in my whole intelligence an intolerable uneasiness.

As a result of this, I became attached, or rather had become much
attached, to inanimate objects, which have for me the importance of
beings, and my house has or had become a world in which I lived an
active and solitary life, surrounded by all manner of things, furniture,
familiar knickknacks, as sympathetic in my eyes as the visages of
human beings.

I had filled my mansion with them; little by little, I had adorned it with them, and I felt an
inward content and satisfaction, was more happy than if I had been in the arms of a beloved
girl, whose wonted caresses had become a soothing and delightful
necessity.

I had had this house constructed in the center of a beautiful garden,
which hid it from the public high-ways, and which was near the entrance
to a city where I could find, on occasion, the resources of society,
for which, at moments, I had a longing.

All my domestics slept in a separate building, which was situated at some considerable distance
from my house, at the far end of the kitchen garden, which in turn
was surrounded by a high wall.

The obscure envelopment of night, in the silence of my concealed habitation, buried under the leaves
of great trees, was so reposeful and so delicious, that before retiring to my couch I lingered
every evening for several hours in order to enjoy the solitude a
little longer.

One day "Signad" had been played at one of the city theaters. It was the first time that I had
listened to that beautiful, musical, and fairy-like drama, and I had derived from it the liveliest
pleasures.

I returned home on foot with a light step, my head full of sonorous
phrases, and my mind haunted by delightful visions.

It was night, the dead of night, and so dark that I could hardly distinguish the broad highway, and
consequently I stumbled into the ditch more than once. From the custom-house, at the barriers,
to my house, was about a mile, perhaps a little more--a leisurely walk of about twenty minutes.
It was one o'clock in the morning, one o'clock or maybe half-past
one; the sky had by this time cleared somewhat and the crescent appeared,
the gloomy crescent of the last quarter of the moon.

The crescent of the first quarter is that which rises about five or six o'clock in the evening
and is clear, gay, and fretted with silver; but the one which rises after midnight is reddish, sad,
and desolating--it is the true Sabbath crescent. Every prowler by night has made the same
observation.


Bang! bang! and Mooney and Frizzle sank in dying agonies beside her, and Wahb, terrified and
stupefied, ran in a circle about them. Then, hardly knowing why, he turned and dashed into
the timber-tangle, and disappeared as a last bang left him with a stinging pain and a useless,
broken hind paw.

       *       *       *       *       *

That is why the post-office was called Four-Bears. The Colonel seemed pleased with what he
had done; indeed, he told of it himself.

But away up in the woods of Anderson's Peak that night a little lame Grizzly might have been
seen wandering, limping along, leaving a bloody spot each time he tried to set down his hind
paw; whining and whimpering, "Mother! Mother! Oh, Mother, where are you?" for he was cold and
hungry, and had such a pain in his foot. But there was no Mother to come to him, and he dared
not go back where he had left her, so he wandered aimlessly about among the pines.

Then he smelled some strange animal smell and heard heavy footsteps; and not knowing what else
to do, he climbed a tree. Presently a band of great, long-necked, slim-legged animals, taller
than his Mother, came by under the tree. He had seen such once before and had not been afraid
of them then, because he had been with his Mother. But now he kept very quiet in the tree,
and the big creatures stopped picking the grass when they were near him, and blowing their
noses, ran out of sight.

He stayed in the tree till near morning, and then he was so stiff with cold that he could scarcely
get down. But the warm sun came up, and he felt better as he sought about for berries and ants,
for he was very hungry. Then he went back to the Piney and put his wounded foot in the ice-cold
water.

He wanted to get back to the mountains again, but still he felt he must go to where he had
left his Mother and brothers. When the afternoon grew warm, he went limping down the stream
through the timber, and down on the banks of the Graybull till he came to the place where yesterday
they had had the fish-feast; and he eagerly crunched the heads and remains that he found. But
there was an odd and horrid smell on the wind. It frightened him, and as he went down to where
he last had seen his Mother the smell grew worse. He peeped out cautiously at the place, and
saw there a lot of Coyotes, tearing at something. What it was he did not know; but he saw no
Mother, and the smell that sickened and terrified him was worse than ever, so he quietly turned
back toward the timber-tangle of the Lower Piney, and nevermore came back to look for his lost
family. He wanted his Mother as much as ever, but something told him it was no use.

As cold night came down, he missed her more and more again, and he whimpered as he limped along,
a miserable, lonely, little, motherless Bear--not lost in the mountains, for he had no home
to seek, but so sick and lonely, and with such a pain in his foot, and in his stomach a craving
for the drink that would nevermore be his. That night he found a hollow log, and crawling in,
he tried to dream that his Mother's great, furry arms were around him, and he snuffled himself
to sleep.

III.

Wahb had always been a gloomy little Bear; and the string of misfortunes that came on him just
as his mind was forming made him more than ever sullen and morose. It seemed as though every
one were against him. He tried to keep out of sight in the upper woods of the Piney, seeking
his food by day and resting at night in the hollow log. But one evening he found it occupied
by a Porcupine as big as himself and as bad as a cactus-bush. Wahb could do nothing with him.
He had to give up the log and seek another nest.

One day he went down on the Graybull flat to dig some roots that his Mother had taught him
were good. But before he had well begun, a grayish-looking animal came out of a hole in the
ground and rushed at him, hissing and growling. Wahb did not know it was a Badger, but he saw
it was a fierce animal as big as himself. He was sick, and lame too, so he limped away and
never stopped till he was on a ridge in the next canon. Here a Coyote saw him, and came bounding
after him, calling at the same time to another to come and join the fun. Wahb was near a tree,
so he scrambled up to the branches. The Coyotes came bounding and yelping below, but their
noses told them that this was a young Grizzly they had chased, and they soon decided that a
young Grizzly in a tree means a Mother Grizzly not far away, and they had better let him alone.

After they had sneaked off Wahb came down and returned to the Piney. There was better feeding
on the Graybull, but every one seemed against him there now that his loving guardian was gone,
while on the Piney he had peace at least sometimes, and there were plenty of trees that he
could climb when an enemy came.

His broken foot was a long time in healing; indeed, it never got quite well. The wound healed
and the soreness wore off, but it left a stiffness that gave him a slight limp, and the sole-balls
grew together quite unlike those of the other foot. It particularly annoyed him when he had
to climb a tree or run fast from his enemies; and of them he found no end, though never once
did a friend cross his path. When he lost his Mother he lost his best and only friend. She
would have taught him much that he had to learn by bitter experience, and would have saved
him from most of the ills that befell him in his cubhood--ills so many and so dire that but
for his native sturdiness he never could have passed through alive.

The pinons bore plentifully that year, and the winds began to shower down the ripe, rich nuts.
Life was becoming a little easier for Wahb. He was gaining in health and strength, and the
creatures he daily met now let him alone. But as he feasted on the pinons one morning after
a gale, a great Black-bear came marching down the hill. 'No one meets a friend in the woods,'
was a byword that Wahb had learned already. He swung up the nearest tree. At first the Black-bear
was scared, for he smelled the smell of Grizzly; but when he saw it was only a cub, he took
courage and came growling at Wahb. He could climb as well as the little Grizzly, or better,
and high as Wahb went, the Blackbear followed, and when Wahb got out on the smallest and highest
twig that would carry him, the Blackbear cruelly shook him off, so that he was thrown to the
ground, bruised and shaken and half-stunned. He limped away moaning, and the only thing that
kept the Blackbear from following him up and perhaps killing him was the fear that the old
Grizzly might be about. So Wahb was driven away down the creek from all the good pinon woods.

There was not much food on the Graybull now. The berries were nearly all gone; there were no
fish or ants to get, and Wahb, hurt, lonely, and miserable, wandered on and on, till he was
away down toward the Meteetsee. A Coyote came bounding and barking through the sage-brush after
him. Wahb tried to run, but it was no use; the Coyote was soon up with him. Then with a sudden
rush of desperate courage Wahb turned and charged his foe. The astonished Coyote gave a scared
yowl or two, and fled with his tail between his legs. Thus Wahb learned that war is the price
of peace.

But the forage was poor here; there were too many cattle; and Wahb was making for a far-away
pinon woods in the Meteetsee Canon when he saw a man, just like the one he had seen on that
day of sorrow. At the same moment he heard a bang, and some sage-brush rattled and fell just
over his back. All the dreadful smells and dangers of that day came back to his memory, and
Wahb ran as he never had run before.

He soon got into a gully and followed it into the canon. An opening between two cliffs seemed
to offer shelter, but as he ran toward it a Range-cow came trotting between, shaking her head
at him and snorting threats against his life.

He leaped aside upon a long log that led up a bank, but at once a savage Bobcat appeared on
the other end and warned him to go back. It was no time to quarrel. Bitterly Wahb felt that
the world was full of enemies. But he turned and scrambled up a rocky bank into the pinon woods
that border the benches of the Meteetsee.

The Pine Squirrels seemed to resent his coming, and barked furiously. They were thinking about
their pinon-nuts. They knew that this Bear was coming to steal their provisions, and they followed
him overhead to scold and abuse him, with such an outcry that an enemy might have followed
him by their noise, which was exactly what they intended.

There was no one following, but it made Wahb uneasy and nervous. So he kept on till he reached
the timber line, where both food and foes were scarce, and here on the edge of the Mountain-sheep
land at last he got a chance to rest.

IV.

Wahb never was sweet-tempered like his baby sister, and the persecutions by his numerous foes
were making him more and more sour. Why could not they let him alone in his misery? Why was
every one against him? If only he had his Mother back! If he could only have killed that Black-bear
that had driven him from his woods! It did not occur to him that some day he himself would
be big. And that spiteful Bobcat, that took advantage of him; and the man that had tried to
kill him. He did not forget any of them, and he hated them all.

Wahb found his new range fairly good, because it was a good nut year. He learned just what
the Squirrels feared he would, for his nose directed him to the little granaries where they
had stored up great quantities of nuts for winter's use. It was hard on the Squirrels, but
it was good luck for Wahb, for the nuts were delicious food. And when the days shortened and
the nights began to be frosty, he had grown fat and well-favored.

He traveled over all parts of the canon now, living mostly in the higher woods, but coming
down at times to forage almost as far as the river. One night as he wandered by the deep-water
a peculiar smell reached his nose. It was quite pleasant, so he followed it up to the water's
edge. It seemed to come from a sunken log. As he reached over toward this, there was a sudden
clank, and one of his paws was caught in a strong, steel Beaver-trap.

Wahb yelled and jerked back with all his strength, and tore up the stake that held the trap.
He tried to shake it off, then ran away through the bushes trailing it. He tore at it with
his teeth; but there it hung, quiet, cold, strong, and immovable. Every little while he tore
at it with his teeth and claws, or beat it against the ground. He buried it in the earth, then
climbed a low tree, hoping to leave it behind; but still it clung, biting into his flesh. He
made for his own woods, and sat down to try to puzzle it out. He did not know what it was,
but his little green-brown eyes glared with a mixture of pain, fright, and fury as he tried
to understand his new enemy.

He lay down under the bushes, and, intent on deliberately crushing the thing, he held it down
with one paw while he tightened his teeth on the other end, and bearing down as it slid away,
the trap jaws opened and the foot was free. It was mere chance, of course, that led him to
squeeze both springs at once. He did not understand it, but he did not forget it, and he got
these not very clear ideas: 'There is a dreadful little enemy that hides by the water and waits
for one. Can anyone understand these things? No doubt he had hoped for happiness, simple, quiet,
and long-enduring happiness, in the arms of a good, tender, and faithful
woman; he had seen all that in the transparent looks of that schoolgirl
with light hair.

He had not dreamed of the fact that an active, living, and vibrating man grows tired as soon
as he has comprehended the stupid reality of a common-place life, unless indeed, he becomes
so brutalized as to be callous to externals.

What would he be like when I met him again? Still lively, witty, light-hearted, and enthusiastic,
or in a state of mental torpor through provincial life? A man can change a great deal in the
course of fifteen years! He sniffed about carefully, for it was not very strong, and learned that this hateful
smell was on a log in front, and the sweet smell that made his mouth water was under some brush
behind. So he went around, pulled away the brush till he got the prize, a piece of meat, and
as he grabbed it, the log in front went down with a heavy chock. It made Wahb jump; but he
got away all right with the meat and some new ideas, and with one old idea made stronger, and
that was, 'When that hateful smell is around it always means trouble.'

As the weather grew colder, Wahb became very sleepy; he slept all day when it was frosty. He
had not any fixed place to sleep in; he knew a number of dry ledges for sunny weather, and
one or two sheltered nooks for stormy days. He had a very comfortable nest under a root, and
one day, as it began to blow and snow, he crawled into this and curled up to sleep. The storm
howled without. The snow fell deeper and deeper. It draped the pine-trees till they bowed,
then shook themselves clear to be draped anew. It drifted over the mountains and poured down
the funnel-like ravines, blowing off the peaks and ridges, and filling up the hollows level
with their rims. It piled up over Wahb's den, shutting out the cold of the winter, shutting
out itself: and Wahb slept and slept.

V.

