"Friends," said he, quietly, as he faced his audience and drew himself to his full height,--"friends,
you are mistaken in your man. I am sorry to disappoint you. I have no wish to quarrel with
you. But you have forced me to speak, and I can do no less than declare my real convictions.
I am, and always have been, opposed to slavery. It is an institution that not only degrades
the slave, but brutalizes the slave-holder, and I pledge you my word that I shall use my best
endeavors--yes, that I shall lay down my life, if need be--to keep this curse from finding
lodgment upon Kansas soil. It is enough that the fairest portions of our land are already infected
with this blight. May it spread no farther. All my energy and my ability shall swell the effort
to bring in Kansas as a Free Soil state."

Up to this point the crowd had been so dumfounded by his temerity that they kept an astonished
silence. Now the storm broke. The rumble of angry voices swelled into a roar of fury. An angry
mob surrounded the speaker. Several desperadoes leaped forward with deadly intent, and one,
Charles Dunn by name, drove his knife to the hilt into the body of the brave man who dared
thus openly to avow his principles.

As father fell, Will sprang to him, and turning to the murderous assailant, cried out in boyhood's
fury:

"You have killed my father! When I'm a man I'll kill you!"

The crowd slunk away, believing father dead. The deed appalled them; they were not yet hardened
to the lawlessness that was so soon to put the state to blush.

Mr. Hathaway and Will then carried father to a hiding-place in the long grass by the wayside.
The crowd dispersed so slowly that dusk came on before the coast was clear. At length, supported
by Will, father dragged his way homeward, marking his tortured progress with a trail of blood.

This path was afterward referred to in the early history of Kansas as "The Cody Bloody Trail."

It was such wild scenes as these that left their impress on the youth and fashioned the Cody
of later years--cool in emergency, fertile in resource, swift in decision, dashing and intrepid
when the time for action came.

Our troubles were but begun. Father's convalescence was long and tedious; he never recovered
fully. His enemies believed him dead, and for a while we kept the secret guarded; but as soon
as he was able to be about persecution began.

About a month after the tragedy at Rively's, Will ran in one evening with the warning that
a band of horsemen were approaching. Suspecting trouble, mother put some of her own clothes
about father, gave him a pail, and bade him hide in the cornfield. He walked boldly from the
house, and sheltered by the gathering dusk, succeeded in passing the horsemen unchallenged.
The latter rode up to the house and dismounted.

"Where's Cody?" asked the leader. He was informed that father was not at home.

"Lucky for him!" was the frankly brutal rejoinder. "We'll make sure work of the killing next time."

Disappointed in their main intention, the marauders revenged themselves in their own peculiar
way by looting the house of every article that took their fancy; then they sat down with the
announced purpose of waiting the return of their prospective victim.

Fearing the effect of the night air upon father, though it was yet summer, mother made a sign
to Will, who slipped from the room, and guided by Turk, carried blankets to the cornfield,
returning before his absence had been remarked. The ruffians soon tired of waiting, and rode
away, after warning mother of the brave deed they purposed to perform. Father came in for the
night, returning to his covert with the dawn.

In expectation of some such raid, we had secreted a good stock of provisions; but as soon as
the day was up Will was dispatched to Rively's store to reconnoiter, under pretext of buying
groceries. Keeping eyes and ears open, he learned that father's enemies were on the watch for
him; so the cornfield must remain his screen. After several days, the exposure and anxiety
told on his strength. He decided to leave home and go to Fort Leavenworth, four miles distant.
When night fell he returned to the house, packed a few needed articles, and bade us farewell.
Will urged that he ride Prince, but he regarded his journey as safer afoot. It was a sad parting.
None of us knew whether we should ever again see our father.

"I hope," he said to mother, "that these clouds will soon pass away, and that we may have a
happy home once more." Then, placing his hands on Will's head, "You will have to be the man
of the house until my return," he said. "But I know I can trust my boy to watch over his mother
and sisters."

With such responsibilities placed upon his shoulders, such confidence reposed in him, small
wonder that Will should grow a man in thought and feeling before he grew to be one in years.

Father reached Fort Leavenworth in safety, but the quarrel between the pro-slavery party and
the Free Soilers waxed more bitter, and he decided that security lay farther on; so he took
passage on an up-river boat to Doniphan, twenty miles distant. This was then a mere landing-place,
but he found a small band of men in camp cooking supper. They were part of Colonel Jim Lane's
command, some three hundred strong, on their way West from Indiana.

Colonel Lane was an interesting character. He had been a friend to Elijah Lovejoy, who was
killed, in 1836, for maintaining an anti-slavery newspaper in Illinois. The Kansas contest
speedily developed the fact that the actual settlers sent from the North by the emigrant-aid
societies would enable the Free State party to outnumber the ruffians sent in by the Southerners;
and when the pro-slavery men were driven to substituting bullets for ballots, Colonel Lane
recruited a band of hardy men to protect the anti-slavery settlers, and incidentally to avenge
the murder of Lovejoy.

The meeting of father and Lane's men was a meeting of friends, and he chose to cast his lot
with theirs. Shortly afterward he took part in "The Battle of Hickory Point," in which the
pro-slavery men were defeated with heavy loss; and thenceforward the name of Jim Lane was a
terror to the lawless and a wall of protection to our family.

The storm and stress of battle had drawn heavily on what little strength was left to father,
and relying for safety upon the proximity of Colonel Lane and his men, he returned to us secretly
by night, and was at once prostrated on a bed of sickness.

This proved a serious strain upon our delicate mother, for during father's absence a little
brother had been added to our home, and not only had she, in addition to the care of Baby Charlie,
the nursing of a sick man, but she was constantly harassed by apprehensions for his safety as well.

CHAPTER IV. -- PERSECUTION CONTINUES.

MOTHER'S fears were well grounded. A few days after father had returned home, a man named Sharpe,
who disgraced the small office of justice of the peace, rode up to our house, very much the
worse for liquor, and informed mother that his errand was to "search the house for that abolition
husband of yours." The intoxicated ruffian then demanded something to eat. While mother, with
a show of hospitality, was preparing supper for him, the amiable Mr. Sharpe killed time in
sharpening his bowie-knife on the sole of his shoe.

"That," said he to Will, who stood watching him, "that's to cut the heart out of that Free
State father of yours!" And he tested the edge with brutally suggestive care.

Will's comment was to take down his rifle and place himself on the staircase leading up to
father's room. There was trouble in that quarter for Mr. Sharpe, if he attempted to ascend
those stairs.

But the justice, as mother surmised, had no notion that father was at home, else he would not
have come alone. He ate heartily of the supper, which Will hoped would choke him, and passing
from drowsiness to drunken slumber, soon tumbled from his chair. This so confused him that
he forgot his pretended errand, and shambled out of the house. He was not so drunk that he
could not tell a good bit of horseflesh, and he straightway took a fancy to Prince, the pet
pony of the family. An unwritten plank in the platform of the pro-slavery men was that the
Free Soil party had no rights they were bound to respect, and Sharpe remarked to Will, with
a malicious grin:

"That's a nice pony of yours, sonny. Guess I'll take him along with me." And he proceeded to
exchange the saddle from the back of his own horse to that of Prince.

"You old coward!" muttered Will, bursting with wrath. "I'll get even with you some day."

The justice was a tall, burly fellow, and he cut so ridiculous a figure as he rode away on
Prince's back, his heels almost touching the ground, that Will laughed outright as he thought
of a plan to save his pony.

A shrill whistle brought Turk to the scene, and receiving his cue, the dog proceeded to give
Sharpe a very bad five minutes. He would nip at one of the dangling legs, spring back out of
reach of the whip with a triumphant bark, then repeat the performance with the other leg. This
little comedy had a delighted spectator in Will, who had followed at a safe distance. Just
as Sharpe made one extra effort to reach Turk, the boy whistled a signal to Prince, who responded
with a bound that dumped his rider in the dust. Here Turk stood over him and showed his teeth. 

He knows why a family, who hate the French with all the fervour of British prejudice, visits
Paris, and remains there for a year or two; he can give a good reason
why a man who delights in a well preserved property in a sporting
country, with a house well built and beautifully situated, consents
to "spare it," at a reduced price, to a man for whom he cares nothing
upon earth: and looks at the world fully alive to the motives, and
perfectly aware of the circumstances, of three-fourths of the unconscious
actors by whom he is surrounded.

The eminent medical man stands, if not upon higher ground, at least
in a more interesting position.

As he mingles with the gay assembly, or visits the crowded ball, he knows the latent ills, the hidden,
yet incurable disorders of the laughing throng by which he is encircled; he sees premature
death lurking under the hectic flush on the cheek of the lovely Fanny, and trembles for the fate
of the kind-hearted Emily, as he beholds her mirthfully joining in the mazy dance. He, too,
by witnessing the frequently recurring scenes of death, beholds the genuine sorrow of the bereaved
wife, or the devoted husband--and can, by the constant unpremeditated
exhibitions of fondness and feeling, appreciate the affection which
exists in such and such places, and understand, with an almost magical
power, the value of the links by which society is held together.

Middle Life.

There is more healthful exercise for the mind in the uneven paths of middling life, than there
is on the Macadamized road of fortune. Were the year all summer, how tiresome would be the green
leaves and the bright sunshine--as, indeed, those will admit, who have lived in climates where
vegetation is always at work.

Unwelcome Truth.

Plain speaking was Mousetrap's distinctive characteristic; his conversation
abounded in blunt truisms, founded upon a course of thinking somewhat
peculiar to himself, but which, when tried by the test of human vice
and human folly, proved very frequently to be a great deal more accurate
than agreeable.

Stockbrokers.

"I know some of them brokering boys are worth a million on Monday, and threepence on Thursday--all
in high feather one week, and poor waddling creturs the next."

Mercantile Life.

A dark hole of a counting-house, with a couple of clerk chaps, cocked up upon long-legged stools,
writing out letters--a smoky fireplace--two or three files, stuck full of dirty papers, hanging
against the wall--an almanack, and a high-railed desk, with a slit in a panel, with "bills
for acceptance" painted over it. They are the chaps "wot" makes time-bargains--they speculate for thousands,
having nothing in the world--and then at the wind-up of a week or two, pay each other what they
call the difference: that is to say, the change between what they
cannot get, and what they have not got.

The Secret Spring.

There are with all great affairs smaller affairs
connected, so that in the watch-work of society, the most skilful
artist is sometimes puzzled to fix upon the very little wheel by which
the greater wheels are worked.

"Bad Company."

"It is too bad to be the bearer of ill tidings," said he, "but the news of your husband's expected
visit has been noised about in some way, and another plot to kill him is afoot. Some of his
enemies are camped at Big Stranger's Creek, and intend to shoot him as he passes there."

Then followed a long and anxious consultation, which ended without any plan of rescue.

All of which had been overheard by Will, who was confined to his bed with an attack of ague.
In him, he decided, lay the only hope for father's safety; so, dressing, he presented his fever-flushed
face to mother. As he held out a handkerchief, "Tie it tight around my head, mother," said
he; "then it won't ache so hard."

A remonstrance against his getting out of bed brought out the fact that he contemplated riding
to Grasshopper Falls!

He was almost too weak to stand, a storm threatened, and thirty miles lay between him and father;
yet he was not to be dissuaded from his undertaking. So Julia and Martha saddled Prince and
helped the ague-racked courier to his saddle.

The plunge into the open air and the excitement of the start encouraged Will to believe that
he could hold out. As he settled down to his long, hard ride he reflected that it was not yet
noon, and that father would not set out until late in the day. Prince seemed to discern that
something extraordinary was afoot, and swung along at a swift, steady gait.

Big Stranger's Creek cut the road half-way to the Falls, and Will approached it before the
afternoon was half gone. The lowering sky darkened the highway, and he hoped to pass the ambush
unrecognized; but as he came up to the stream he made out a camp and campers, one of whom called
out carelessly to him as he passed:

"Are you all right on the goose?"--the cant phrase of the pro-slavery men.

"Never rode a goose in my life, gentlemen," was the reply.

"That's Cody's boy!" shouted another voice; and the word "Halt!" rang out just as Will had
galloped safely past the camp.

Will's answer was to drive the spurs into Prince and dart ahead, followed by a rain of bullets.
He was now well out of range, and the pony still strong and fleet.

The chase was on, and in the thrill of it Will forgot his weakness. A new strength came with
the rush of air and the ring of hoofs, and "I'll reach the Falls in time!" was his heartening
thought, as pursurer and pursued sped through the forests, clattered over bridges, and galloped
up hill and down.

Then broke the long-impending storm, and the hard road became the bed of a muddy stream. The
pursuit was abandoned, and this stimulus removed, Will felt the chills and weakness coming
on again. He was drenched to the skin, and it was an effort to keep his saddle, but he set
his teeth firmly in his resolve to accomplish his heroic purpose.

At last! A welcome light gleamed between the crystal bars of the rain. His mission was accomplished.

His ride had been longer by ten miles than that famous gallop of the friend of his after years--Phil
Sheridan. Like Sheridan, he reached the goal in time, for father was just mounting his horse.

But the ride proved too much for his strength, and Will collapsed. Father started with him,
a few days later, for Topeka, which was headquarters for the Free State party.

Father acquainted mother of their safety, and explained that he had gone to Topeka because
he feared his life was no longer safe at Grasshopper Falls.

Party strife in Kansas was now at its height. Thousands came into the territory from adjacent
slave states simply to vote, and the pro-slavery party elected a legislature, whose first meeting
was held at Le Compton. This election the Free Soilers declared illegal, because of fraudulent
voting, and assembling at Topeka in the winter of 1855-56, they framed a constitution excluding
slavery, and organized a rival government. Of this first Free-Soil Legislature father was a member.

Thenceforth war was the order of the day, and in the fall of 1856 a military governor was appointed,
with full authority to maintain law and order in Kansas.

Recognizing the good work effected by the emigrant-aid societies, and realizing that in a still
larger Northern emigration to Kansas lay the only hope of its admission as a free state, father
went to Ohio in the following spring, to labor for the salvation of the territory he had chosen
for his home. Here his natural gift of oratory had free play, and as the result of his work
on the stump he brought back to Kansas sixty families, the most of whom settled in the vicinity
of Grasshopper Falls, now Valley Falls.

This meant busy times for us, for with that magnificent disregard for practical matters that
characterizes many men of otherwise great gifts, father had invited each separate family to
make headquarters at his home until other arrangements could be perfected. As a result, our
house overflowed, while the land about us was dotted with tents; but these melted away, as
one by one the families selected claims and put up cabins.

Among the other settlers was Judge Delahay, who, with his family, located at Leavenworth, and
began the publishing of the first abolition newspaper in Kansas. The appointing of the military
governor was the means of restoring comparative tranquillity; but hundreds of outrages were
committed, and the judge and his newspaper came in for a share of suffering. The printing-office
was broken into, and the type and press thrown into the Missouri River. Undaunted, the judge
procured a new press, and the paper continued.

A semi-quiet now reigned in the territory; father resumed work at the sawmill, and we looked
forward to a peaceful home and the joy of being once more permanently united. But it was not
to be. The knife wound had injured father's lung. With care and nursing it might have healed,
but constant suffering attended on the life that persecution had led him, and in the spring
of '57 he again came home, and took to his bed for the last time.

All that could be was done, but nothing availed. After a very short illness he passed away--one
of the first martyrs in the cause of freedom in Kansas.

The land of his adoption became his last, long resting-place. His remains now lie on Pilot
Knob, which overlooks the beautiful city of Leavenworth. His death was regretted even by his
enemies, who could not help but grant a tribute of respect to a man who had been upright, just,
and generous to friend and foe.

CHAPTER V. -- THE "BOY EXTRA."

AT this sorrowful period mother was herself almost at death's door with consumption, but far
from sinking under the blow, she faced the new conditions with a steadfast calm, realizing
that should she, too, be taken, her children would be left without a protector, and at the
mercy of the enemies whose malignity had brought their father to an untimely end. Her indomitable
will opposed her bodily weakness. "I will not die," she told herself, "until the welfare of
my children is assured." She was needed, for our persecution continued.

Hardly was the funeral over when a trumped-up claim for a thousand dollars, for lumber and
supplies, was entered against our estate. Mother knew the claim was fictitious, as all the
bills had been settled, but the business had been transacted through the agency of Uncle Elijah,
and father had neglected to secure the receipts. In those bitter, troublous days it too often
happened that brother turned against brother, and Elijah retained his fealty to his party at
the expense of his dead brother's family.

This fresh affliction but added fuel to the flame of mother's energy. Our home was paid for,
but father's business had been made so broken and irregular that our financial resources were
of the slenderest, and should this unjust claim for a thousand dollars be allowed, we would
be homeless.

The result of mother's study of the situation was, "If I had the ready money, I should fight
the claim."

"You fight the claim, and I'll get the money," Will replied.

Mother smiled, but Will continued:

"Russell, Majors & Waddell will give me work. Jim Willis says I am capable of filling the position
of 'extra.' If you'll go with me and ask Mr. Majors for a job, I'm sure he'll give me one."

Russell, Majors & Waddell were overland freighters and contractors, with headquarters at Leavenworth.
To Will's suggestion mother entered a demurrer, but finally yielded before his insistence.
Mr. Majors had known father, and was more than willing to aid us, but Will's youth was an objection
not lightly overridden.

"What can a boy of your age do?" he asked, kindly.

"I can ride, shoot, and herd cattle," said Will; "but I'd rather be an 'extra' on one of your
trains.'

"But that is a man's work, and is dangerous besides." Mr. Majors hesitated. "But I'll let you
try it one trip, and if you do a man's work, I'll give you a man's pay."

So Will's name was put on the company roll, and he signed a pledge that illustrates better
than a description the character and disposition of Mr. Majors. So help me God!"

Mr Majors employed many wild and reckless men, but the language of the pledge penetrated to
the better nature of them all. They endeavored, with varying success, to live up to its conditions,
although most of them held that driving a bull-team constituted extenuating circumstances for
an occasional expletive.

The pledge lightened mother's heart; she knew that Will would keep his word; she felt, too,
that a man that required such a pledge of his employees was worthy of their confidence and esteem.

The train was to start in a day, and all of us were busy with the preparations for Will's two
months' trip. The moment of parting came, and it was a trying ordeal for mother, so recently
bereaved of husband. Will sought to soothe her, but the younger sisters had better success,
for with tears in our eyes we crowded about him, imploring him to "run if he saw any Indians."

'Tis but a step from tears to smiles; the situation was relieved, and Will launched his life
bark amid adieus of hope and confidence and love. His fortitude lasted only till he was out
of sight of the house; but youth is elastic, the plains lay before him, and mother and sisters
were to be helped; so he presented a cheerful face to his employers.

That night the bed of the "boy extra" was a blanket under a wagon; but he slept soundly, and
was ready when the train started with the dawn.

The "bull-train" took its name from the fact that each of the thirty-five wagons making up
a full train was hauled by several yoke of oxen, driven by one man, known as a bullwhacker.
This functionary's whip cracked like a rifle, and could be heard about as far. The wagons resembled
the ordinary prairie-schooner, but were larger and more strongly built; they were protected
from the weather by a double covering of heavy canvas, and had a freight capacity of seven
thousand pounds.

Besides the bullwhackers there were cavallard drivers (who cared for the loose cattle), night
herders, and sundry extra hands, all under the charge of a chief wagon-master, termed the wagon-boss,
his lieutenants being the boss of the cattle train and the assistant wagon-master. The men
were disposed in messes, each providing its own wood and water, doing its own cooking, and
washing up its own tin dinner service, while one man in each division stood guard. Special
duties were assigned to the "extras," and Will's was to ride up and down the train delivering
orders. This suited his fancy to a dot, for the oxen were snail-gaited, and to plod at their
heels was dull work. Kipling tells us it is quite impossible to "hustle the East"; it were
as easy, as Will discovered, to hustle a bull-train.

From the outset the "boy extra" was a favorite with the men. They liked his pluck in undertaking
such work, and when it was seen that he took pride in executing orders promptly, he became
a favorite with the bosses as well. In part his work was play to him; he welcomed an order
as a break in the monotony of the daily march, and hailed the opportunity of a gallop on a
good horse.

The world of Will's fancy was bounded by the hazy rim where plain and sky converge, and when
the first day's journey was done, and he had staked out and cared for his horse, he watched
with fascinated eyes the strange and striking picture limned against the black hills and the
sweeping stretch of darkening prairie. Everything was animation; the bullwhackers unhitching
and disposing of their teams, the herders staking out the cattle, and--not the least interesting--the
mess cooks preparing the evening meal at the crackling camp-fires, with the huge, canvas-covered
wagons encircling them like ghostly sentinels; the ponies and oxen blinking stupidly as the
flames stampeded the shadows in which they were enveloped; and more weird than all, the buckskin-clad
bullwhackers, squatted around the fire, their beards glowing red in its light, their faces
drawn in strange black and yellow lines, while the spiked grasses shot tall and sword-like
over them.

It was wonderful--that first night of the "boy extra."

But Will discovered that life on the plains is not all a supper under the stars when the sparks
fly upward; it has its hardships and privations. There were days, as the wagons dragged their
slow lengths along, when the clouds obscured the sky and the wind whistled dismally; days when
torrents fell and swelled the streams that must be crossed, and when the mud lay ankle-deep;
days when the cattle stampeded, and the round-up meant long, extra hours of heavy work; and,
hardest but most needed work of all, the eternal vigil 'gainst an Indian attack.

Will did not share the anxiety of his companions. To him a brush with Indians would prove that
boyhood's dreams sometimes come true, and in imagination he anticipated the glory of a first
encounter with the "noble red man," after the fashion of the heroes in the hair-lifting Western
tales he had read. He was soon to learn, as many another has learned, that the Indian of real
Life is vastly different from the Indian of fiction. He refuses to "bite the dust" at sight
of a paleface, and a dozen of them have been known to hold their own against as many white men.

