Forsan et haec olim meminisse juvabit"

                     Lights and Shadows in
                      Confederate Prisons

                     A Personal Experience
                            1864-5

                              By

                    Homer B. Sprague, Ph.D.
                 Bvt.-Colonel 13th Conn. Vols.

 Sometime Professor in Cornell and President of the University
                        of North Dakota

   Author of "History of the 13th Conn. Inf. Vols.," "Right
         and Wrong in our War between the States," and
            "The European War, Its Cause and Cure"
    Dialect and archaic spellings have been retained. The letter 'e'
    with a macron has been transcribed as [=e].

                       TO
                 THE ALUMNI OF
              THE UNIVERSITIES OF
        YALE, CORNELL, AND NORTH DAKOTA

      IN WHICH RESPECTIVELY THE AUTHOR WAS
         STUDENT, PROFESSOR, PRESIDENT;
                       TO
      THOUSANDS OF HIS PUPILS YET LIVING;
                       TO
      HIS COMPANIONS OF THE LOYAL LEGION,
  COMRADES OF THE GRAND ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC,
      ALL SURVIVING OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS
             UNION OR CONFEDERATE;
 ALL WHO CHERISH THE MEMORY OF THE PATRIOT DEAD
             AND ALL WHO HATE WAR,
         THIS RECORD IS AFFECTIONATELY
                   DEDICATED

PREFACE

This narrative of prison life differs from all others that I have seen, in that it is careful
to put the best possible construction upon the treatment of Union prisoners by the Confederates,
and to state and emphasize kindnesses and courtesies received by us from them.

For the accuracy of the facts stated I am indebted to a diary kept from day to day during the
whole of my imprisonment, and to the best obtainable records. The exact language of conversations
cannot of course always be remembered, but I aim always to give correctly the substance.

I am aware that the opinions I express in regard to Sheridan's strategy at the Battle of Winchester
are not those generally entertained. But I give reasons. His own account of the battle is sadly
imperfect. To capture but five guns and nine battle flags at a cost of four thousand six hundred
and eighty killed and wounded, and leave almost the entire rebel army in shape to fight two
great battles within a month, was not the programme he had planned. Early said "Sheridan should
have been cashiered."

I shall be blamed more for venturing to question Lincoln's policy of subjugation. He had proclaimed
with great power and in the most unmistakable language in Congress that "any portion of any
people had a perfect right to throw off their old government and establish a new one." But
now, instead of standing strictly on the defensive, or attempting by diplomacy to settle the
conflict which had become virtually international, he entered upon a war of conquest.

I do not blame him for refusing to exchange prisoners, nor President Davis for allowing them
to starve and freeze. Both were right, if war is right. It was expedient that thirty, fifty,
or a hundred thousand of us should perish, or be rendered physically incapable of bearing arms
again. The "deep damnation of the taking off" was due not to individual depravity but to military
necessity.

                                                              H. B. S.
 BRIGHTON, MASS., U. S. A.,
          1915.

"War is Hell," said our great strategist, General W. T. Sherman. According to its latest code,
with few or no exceptions, the end justifies the means, and, if necessary to success, it is
right to do wrong.

Fifty years ago one of the fairest regions on earth was that portion of Virginia extending
southwesterly about a hundred and twenty miles from Harper's Ferry to the divide beyond Staunton,
where rise the headwaters of the James. Walled in by the Blue Ridge on the southeast and parallel
ranges of the Alleghanies on the northwest, it takes its name from the beautiful river which
winds along its length, and which the Indians poetically christened Shenandoah (Daughter of
the Stars!). When some three hundred of us prisoners of war walked wearily a hundred miles
from Winchester to Staunton in September, 1864, it was still rich and lovely. A few weeks later,
the necessities of war made it a scene of utter desolation.

Accordingly Grant issued orders with increasing emphasis, particularly in August and September,
to make the whole region "a barren waste," to

    destroy or carry off the crops and animals; do all possible damage
    to railroads; seize stock of every description; take away all negro
    laborers so as to prevent further planting; hold as prisoners of
    war, if sympathizing with the rebellion, all male citizens under
    fifty years of age capable of bearing arms, etc.

In obedience to these commands, Sheridan engaged with alacrity in the work of destruction.
In a few weeks he reported as follows:

    I have destroyed 2000 barns filled with wheat, hay, and farming
    implements; over 70 mills filled with flour and wheat; and driven in
    front of my army 4000 head of stock.

Said one of his officers who knew whereof he was speaking, "A crow flying through the valley
would have to carry his own rations, for he could pick up nothing!"

At Winchester, the principal town in the Shenandoah Valley, one hundred and fifty miles N.
N. W. of Richmond, with a population of about four thousand, the 19th of that September was
a day of glory but also of sorrow. Four thousand six hundred and eighty of the Union Army,
killed and wounded, told how dearly Sheridan's first great victory was gained.

The battle was fought over three, four, or five square miles, east and north from Winchester,
for the most part near the Opequon Creek, from which it is sometimes called the "Battle of
the Opequon." To reach the field, the bulk of Sheridan's army, starting at three o'clock in
the morning from Berryville ten miles east, had to pass through a gorge in which for a considerable
distance the turnpike extends towards Winchester. Sheridan's plan at first was to bring his
army, except Merritt's and Averell's Divisions of Torbert's Cavalry, through the defile, post
the Sixth Corps on the left, the Nineteenth on the right, throw Crook's Army of West Virginia
across the Staunton turnpike (leading southwest from Winchester), and so cut off all retreat
up the valley. Meanwhile those two cavalry divisions were to make a long detour on our right
to the north from Berryville, and close in upon the Confederate left. Sheridan felt sure of
victory, for we outnumbered the enemy nearly two to one. Had our army got into position early
in the morning, we should have captured or destroyed the whole of them.

At early dawn McIntosh's Brigade of Wilson's Division of Torbert's Cavalry dashed through the
ravine, closely followed by Chapman's Brigade and five batteries of horse artillery. Sheridan
and his staff followed. They surprised and captured a small earthwork, and, though fiercely
assaulted, held it till the van of the Sixth Corps relieved them.

The narrow pass of the Berryville pike was so obstructed by artillery, ambulances, ammunition
wagons, etc., that it was nearly eight o'clock before the Sixth Corps, which should have been
in position with Wilson's Cavalry at sunrise, began to arrive; and it was fully two hours later
when the Nineteenth Corps debouched and deployed. Here was miscalculation or bad management
or both.

This long delay, which the quick-moving cavalry leader Sheridan had not foreseen nor provided
for, gave time for Early to call in the strong divisions of Generals Gordon, Breckenridge,
and Rodes, from the vicinity of Stephenson's Depot several miles away. They left Patton's Brigade
of Infantry, and a part of Fitzhugh Lee's Cavalry to oppose Torbert.

Hearing nothing from Torbert, who had now been gone seven or eight hours on his circuitous
route, Sheridan suddenly changed his whole plan of action, a perilous maneuver in the face
of an active enemy while the battle is already raging intermittently. Instead of flinging Crook's
Army of West Virginia, 17 regiments and 3 batteries, across the Staunton pike, to front northeasterly
and cut off all possible retreat of the Confederates, he determined to move it to our right
and deploy it in line with the Nineteenth. Doubtless this was best under the circumstances,
though it left to the enemy the broad smooth highway as a line of retreat up the valley.

Grover's Division (2d of the Nineteenth Corps) in four brigades formed line of battle in front
and to the right of the gorge. In touch on the left was Ricketts' Division of the Sixth Corps,
and resting on Ricketts' left was Getty's Division of the same corps. Getty had 16 regiments
in line; Ricketts, 12 with 6 batteries; Grover, 20 with 3 batteries.

Had Sheridan been able to strike Early by half-past eight with the Sixth and Nineteenth, he
would have crushed him in detail. So I must be content with offering a materialistic possibility
of traveling in time.

The Science Correspondence Club wishes to extend its invitation to
all Readers in other nations to join with all privileges save that
of holding office.

 To
make room for its movement in our rear behind Grover's Division, and to hold the enemy in play
until it should have taken its place on the right of the Nineteenth, and perhaps to await there
the appearance of Torbert's Cavalry, it was desirable that Grover should advance. Sheridan
of course meant the whole front of the Sixth and Nineteenth to keep in a continuous line. At
first it seemed to me that the regiments of the Nineteenth overlapped; but the lines of advance
were slightly divergent, and wide breaks began to appear between battalions. Especially on
the left of the Nineteenth a large and widening gap appeared; for Ricketts had been instructed
to guide on the Berryville pike, and that bore away to the left and south.

My battalion, the veteran Thirteenth Conn. Infantry, should have been led by my Colonel, C.
D. Blinn: but he was sick the night before, and in the morning, at the crossing of the Opequon,
he fell out, and left the command to me. He had no part in the battle. Our Thirteenth deserves
a passing notice. It was the favorite regiment of General Birge, its first colonel.[2] When
he was made brigadier, the regiment entered the brigade commanded by Colonel E. L. Molineux.
Birge was never so happy as when riding into action, and Molineux, who had been severely wounded
in the same battle with me, was not over-cautious. My regiment and both brigades, the first
and second of Grover's Division, had caught the spirit of those two commanders. Quite generally
they mistook the forward movement for an immediate charge.

We had been under an intermittent fire for some time, but now the advance intensified the conflict.
The chief anxiety of good soldiers at such a time, as I often noticed, is to get at the enemy
as soon as possible, and cease to be mere targets. Their enthusiasm now accelerated their pace
to a double-quick, and was carrying them too far to the front. Birge and Molineux endeavored
in vain to check their rapidity. My battalion, I think, was nearest the rebel line.

Between eleven and twelve the divisions of Getty, Ricketts, and Grover, forty-eight regiments
in all, to which were attached eight light batteries with reserve artillery, began to move
forward. It was a grand spectacle. At first the movement was steady, and we thought of Scott's
lines,

    The host moves like a deep-sea wave,
    Where rise no rocks its pride to brave,
    High-swelling, dark, and slow.

But all is quickly changed.

Looking back upon that scene after the lapse of more than fifty years, its magnificence has
not yet faded. I see as in a dream our long bending wave of blue rolling slowly at first but
with increasing speed, foam-tipped with flags here and there and steel-crested with Birge's
bayonets yonder; glimpses of cavalry in the distance moving as if on wings with the lightness
of innumerable twinkling feet; numberless jets of smoke across the fields marking the first
line of Confederate infantry, their musketry rattling precisely like exploding bunches of firecrackers;
batteries galloping to position, the thunder of a dozen smiting the ear more rapidly than one
could count; the buzz, hiss, whistle, shriek, crash, hurricane of projectiles; the big shot
from batteries in front and from Braxton's artillery on our right ripping up the ground and
bounding away to the rear and the left; horses and riders disappearing in the smoke of exploding
shells; the constant shouting of our officers indistinctly heard, and now and then the peculiar
well-known "rebel yell"; and finally the command, HALT! LIE DOWN! Molineux and Birge were too
far to the front, and the line must be rectified. Ricketts, as we pressed forward, had thrown
Keifer's Brigade (2d of Third Division, Sixth Corps), seven regiments, into the broadening
interval directly in front of the mouth of the gorge; but it was not sufficient.

It was now Early's opportunity; but he was hours too late, just as Sheridan had been. He had
seen our Sixth Corps and Nineteenth emerge and deploy, had beheld our rapid and somewhat disorderly
approach, had noted the widening spaces between our battalions and divisions, had observed
the havoc wrought by his artillery and musketry, ten thousand of our soldiers seeming to sink
under it; had had time to mass his forces; and now it was "up to him" to hurl them against
our centre. It was the strategy inaugurated by Epaminondas at Leuctra and perfected by Napoleon
in many a hard battle, breaking the enemy's centre by an irresistible charge, dividing and
conquering. Rodes had been killed at a battery in front of our brigade. His veterans and Gordon's,
six thousand strong[3] constituted the charging column. Neither Sheridan nor any other Federal
historian appears to have done justice to this charge. Pickett's at Gettysburg was not more
brilliant.

With yells distinctly heard above the roar they advanced. The batteries on each side redoubled
their discharges. From our irregular line of infantry extending more than a mile blazed incessant
sheets and spurts of flame, the smoke at times hiding the combatants. Gordon was heading toward
the now nearly empty ravine. My horse had just been shot under me. I lost two in that fight.
Dismounted I walked from the right of my battalion to the left, cautioning my men against wasting
their ammunition, bidding them take sure aim, pick out the rebel officers, and not fire too
high. They were shooting from a recumbent position, or resting on one knee; lying flat on their
backs to reload. As I reached the left, I glanced to the right and saw several of them starting
to their feet, and a little further on, two or three began to run back. I rushed to the spot
shouting, "Back to your places!" I saw the cause: the regiments on our right were retreating.
I was astounded, for we were expecting an order to advance instantly. At that moment Lieutenant
Handy, an aide of our brigade commander, rode up, pale, excited, his hands flung up as if in
despair. My men were springing to their feet.

"What are those orders?" I demanded.

"Retreat, retreat! get to the rear as fast as possible," he replied.

"Battalion, rise up; shoulder arms--" I commanded. Before I could finish the order, one of
Sheridan's staff came on a swift gallop, his horse white with foam.

"For God's sake, what does this mean?" said he; "this retreat must be stopped!"

"Battalion, lie down," I shouted; "our brigade commander ordered retreat!"

"It's all wrong. If this position's lost, all's lost. Here you have some cover. Hold it to
the last. I'll bring supports immediately." Striking spurs into his steed, he vanished in the
direction of the retreating regiments.

Except the few who had heard my command and remained in position, perhaps seventy-five or a
hundred, who kept blazing away at the Confederates, rising a little to kneel and fire, Grover's
Division, and all we could see of that of Ricketts, had gone to pieces, swept away like chaff
before a whirlwind. Not a Union flag now in sight, but plenty of the "Stars and Bars!" Our
sputtering fire checked some directly in front; but most of the on-rushing masses were deflected
by the nature of the ground.

Out of our view and about half a mile in our rear was Dwight's Division, the First of the Nineteenth
Corps. It had been left in reserve. It was in line of battle and ready for the onset. The confused
fragments of Grover were rallied behind it. Had the ground been favorable, and had no unexpected
opposition been encountered, Gordon would have crushed Dwight.

But in fewer minutes than we have occupied in describing this charge, a tremendous and prolonged
roar and rattle told us that the battle was on behind us more than in front. Amid the din arose
a quick succession of deafening crashes, and shot and shell came singing and howling over us
from the left. Russell's Division (First of the Sixth Corps) comprising eleven infantry regiments
and one of heavy artillery, behind which the broken battalions of Ricketts had been reassembling,
was now smiting the right flank of Gordon's six thousand. Although the charge came too late
we cannot but admire the strategy that directed it, and the bravery of the infantry of Gordon,
Rodes, and Ramseur, as well as that of the cavalry of Lomax, Jackson, and Johnson, and of Fitzhugh
Lee who fell severely wounded. But they had not foreseen the terrible cross-fire from Russell,
who died at the head of his division, a bullet piercing his breast and a piece of shell tearing
through his heart. Nor had they calculated on confronting the long line of Dwight, nine regiments
with the Fifth New York Battery, all of which stood like a stone breakwater. Against it Gordon's
masses, broken by the irregularities of the ground, dashed in vain. Under the ceaseless fire
of iron and lead the refluent waves came pouring back. Our army was saved.

But we few, who, in obedience to explicit orders from headquarters, had held our position stiffly
farthest to the front when all the rest of Grover's and Ricketts' thousands had retreated--we
were lost. A column behind a rebel flag was advancing straight upon us unchecked by our vigorous
fire. Seeing that they meant business, I commanded, "Fix Bayonets!" At that instant the gray
surges converged upon us right and left and especially in our rear. We seemed in the middle
of the rebel army. In the crater of such a volcano, fine-spun theories, poetic resolves to
die rather than be captured--these are point-lace in a furnace. A Union officer, Capt. W. Frank
Tiemann of the 159th N. Y., Molineux's Brigade, was showing fight, and half a dozen Confederates
with clubbed muskets were rushing upon him. I leaped to the spot, sword in hand, and shouted
with all the semblance I could assume of fierce authority,

"Down with those muskets! Stop! I command you." They lowered them.

"Who the hell are you?" they asked.

"I'll let you know." Turning instantly to four or five Confederate officers, I demanded: "Do
you mean to massacre my men?"

Two or three replied: "No. By G--! You've shown yourselves brave, and you shall be respected.
Yes, you fought d--d well, seein' you had the d--dest brigade to fight against in the whole
Confederate Army."

"What brigade are you?" I asked.

"Ramseur's old brigade; and there's nothin' this side o' hell can lick it."

"You're brave enough," said another; "but damn you, you've killed our best general."

"Who's that?" I asked.

"Rodes; killed right in front of you."

"I thought Early was your best General."

"Not by a d-- sight. Old Jubal's drunk--drunk as a fool."

I was never more highly complimented than at this moment; but the stunning consciousness of
being a prisoner, the bitterest experience of my life, the unspeakable disappointment, the
intense mortification--these are even to this day poorly mitigated, much less compensated,
by the excessive praises heaped upon me by those Confederate officers for my supposed bravery.
That they were sincere I cannot doubt; for it was customary on the battle-field for the rebels
to strip prisoners of all valuables, but no one of the fifty or one hundred near me was robbed.
Tiemann, whose life I had perhaps saved, was even privileged to keep his canteen of whiskey,
of which he gave me a drink by and by to keep me in good spirits!

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Personal Memoirs, vol. i., p. 487.

[2] In New Orleans it was known as "Butler's Dandy Regiment"; for it was then better dressed
than any other. It wore dark blue, which Birge had procured through his uncle, Buckingham,
the war governor of Connecticut. At the siege of Port Hudson it had distinguished itself above
all other regiments by furnishing as volunteers nearly one-fourth of the celebrated "Storming
Column" of one thousand men called for by General N. P. Banks the second day after the disastrous
assault on that fortress (June 14, 1863). Birge was selected by Banks to lead the forlorn hope.

[3] Six thousand is Gordon's statement in his Reminiscences, page 320.

There were two battles that Monday between Sheridan and Early, the first indecisive, though
bloody, a drawn game; the second, after a comparative lull of several hours, a fierce struggle
in which the whole front of the Sixth, Nineteenth, and Crook's Corps simultaneously advanced,
and Torbert's Cavalry, arriving at last after their unaccountable delay upon our extreme right,
made a magnificent charge crumpling up all the enemy's left. The victory was real, but not
so complete as it should have been. Sheridan ought to have captured or destroyed the whole
of Early's army. Instead, he had left them an open line of retreat. He took only five pieces
of artillery, nine battle-flags, and some twelve or fifteen hundred prisoners; and, to use
his own words, "sent the Confederates whirling up the valley."

In the recoil of Gordon's brilliant charge of six thousand about noon, we prisoners were swept
along into Winchester, and then locked in the old Masonic Hall. The sociable guards took pains
to emphasize the statement that George Washington, "glorious rebel" they called him, had presided
as Grand Master in that very room!

After several hours we heard a great noise in the streets. Looking out we saw men, women, children,
moving rapidly hither and thither, the current for the most part setting toward the southwest.
The din increased; the panic became general; the Union Army was advancing on Winchester!

We were hustled into the street now filled with retreating hundreds, and were marched rapidly
along the turnpike toward the setting sun. The road crowded with artillery, army wagons, common
carriages, all pouring along in the stampede; a formidable provost guard enclosing us prisoners
in a sort of hollow column; cavalry in front, flank, and rear; the fields on either side swarming
with infantry, the whole of Early's army in retreat, we apparently in the middle of it; Sheridan's
guns still booming in our rear--such was the scene as we two or three hundred prisoners were
driven on. Our mingled emotions can be better imagined than described. The bitter regret that
we had not been slain; the consciousness that we had done our whole duty in facing unflinchingly
the storm of shot and shell, never retreating an inch; the evident respect and even courtesy
with which I was personally treated; the inspiring certainty that our army was victorious,
the unspeakable mortification of being ourselves prisoners of war!--we sorely needed all our
philosophy and all our religion to sustain us.

Marching moodily along I was aroused from a sort of reverie by an experience far too common
in those days. Then, it will be necessary to have a governing body and director in every country.
At present all matters pertaining to foreign membership pass through my hands and I will do my
best to supply information to all who seek it. We will also be glad to hear of the work and plans
of other similar organizations in other countries, as we are doing with the German Verein für
Raumschauffert. Address all inquiries to me at 302 So.
 "You shan't have it." He tugged and I tugged, and as
I was on foot and sober I nearly dragged him from his horse before he let go. During the tussle
I repeatedly shouted, "Captain of the Guard--Help! Help!" The provost captain instantly came
riding to the spot. "What's the matter?" he asked. "That rascal has tried to rob me of my overcoat,"
I answered, pointing to the villain who was beginning to slink away. The captain appeared to
recognize him, said not a word to him, but whispered to me a moment later, "You are entitled
to keep your overcoat."

We had had little breakfast and no dinner nor supper, but we suffered more from thirst than
hunger. Can we ever forget it? Will the long flight never end? On through Kerrstown without
halting we march, with promise of rest and water at Newtown; no rest nor water there. On from
Newtown with assurance of water at Middletown. Five minutes at Middletown, and a little muddy
water that seems to aggravate our thirst. Farther on we cross a bridge under which the water
is dashing as if in mockery, and the cry "Water! water!" rises from a hundred lips, the guard
joining, for they are suffering like ourselves. Some comfort in that! Past midnight we reach
Strasburg and are halted around an old wooden pump. It is broken! No water there. Still on
and on at a snail-pace, up and over the almost interminable stretch of Fisher's Hill. At three
o'clock in the morning we arrive at a place known by the classical name of Tom's Brook about
twenty-five miles from Winchester. Never was nectar more delicious than the water of this stream,
nor downy pillow more welcome than the sod on its banks. Without blankets or covering we sank
in each other's arms for mutual warmth on the dew-drenched grass; and blistered feet and aching
limbs and hunger and thirst and suffocating despair are all forgotten!

Morning came unnoticed, except by those whom the keen cold permitted to sleep no longer. Towards
noon we rose, washed without soap or towel, were made to form line, had our names taken, and
received as rations a pint of flour per man, with a little salt, nothing else. How to cook
or prepare the flour? We learned of the rebel guards a process not laid down in the cook-books.
Mixing with water they made a stiff paste or dough. This they put around the end of a stick
about the size and half the length of a walking cane. The end thus thickly coated they hold
over a little fire till the smoke and flame have sufficiently hardened it. Then pull out your
stick and you have a thick chunk or cylinder of bread, not quite so tough as a gun-barrel,
but substantial!

