At last, however, the green fields came to an end, and Maggie found herself looking through
the bars of a gate into a lane with a wide margin of grass on each side of it. She had never
seen such a wide lane before, and, without her knowing why, it gave her the impression that
the common could not be far off; perhaps it was because she saw a donkey with a log to his
foot feeding on the grassy margin, for she had seen a donkey with that pitiable encumbrance
on Dunlow Common when she had been across it in her father's gig. She crept through the bars
of the gate and walked on with new spirit, though not without haunting images of Apollyon,
and a highwayman with a pistol, and a blinking dwarf in yellow with a mouth from ear to ear,
and other miscellaneous dangers. For poor little Maggie had at once the timidity of an active
imagination, and the daring that comes from over-mastering impulse. She had rushed into the
adventure of seeking her unknown kindred, the gypsies; and now she was in this strange lane,
she hardly dared look on one side of her, lest she should see the diabolical blacksmith in
his leathern apron grinning at her with arms akimbo. It was not without a leaping of the heart
that she caught sight of a small pair of bare legs sticking up, feet uppermost, by the side
of a hillock; they seemed something hideously preternatural,--a diabolical kind of fungus;
for she was too much agitated at the first glance to see the ragged clothes and the dark shaggy
head attached to them. It was a boy asleep, and Maggie trotted along faster and more lightly,
lest she should wake him; it did not occur to her that he was one of her friends the gypsies,
who in all probability would have very genial manners. But the fact was so, for at the next
bend in the lane Maggie actually saw the little semi-circular black tent with the blue smoke
rising before it, which was to be her refuge from all the blighting obloquy that had pursued
her in civilized life. She even saw a tall female figure by the column of smoke, doubtless
the gypsy-mother, who provided the tea and other groceries; it was astonishing to herself that
she did not feel more delight. But it was startling to find the gypsies in a lane, after all,
and not on a common; indeed, it was rather disappointing; for a mysterious illimitable common,
where there were sand pits to hide in, and one was out of everybody's reach, had always made
part of Maggie's picture of gypsy life. She went on, however, and thought with some comfort
that gypsies most likely knew nothing about idiots, so there was no danger of their falling
into the mistake of setting her down at the first glance as an idiot.

It was plain she had attracted attention; for the tall figure, who proved to be a young woman
with a baby on her arm, walked slowly to meet her. Maggie looked up in the new face rather
tremblingly as it approached, and was reassured by the thought that her aunt Pullet and the
rest were right when they called her a gypsy; for this face, with the bright dark eyes and
the long hair, was really something like what she used to see in the glass before she cut her
hair off.

"My little lady, where are you going to?" the gypsy said, in a tone of coaxing deference.

It was delightful, and just what Maggie expected; the gypsies saw at once that she was a little
lady, and were prepared to treat her accordingly.

"Not any farther," said Maggie, feeling as if she were saying what she had rehearsed in a dream.
"I'm come to stay with you, please."

"That's pretty; come, then. Why, what a nice little lady you are, to be sure!" said the gypsy,
taking her by the hand. Maggie thought her very agreeable, but wished she had not been so dirty.

There was quite a group round the fire when they reached it. An old gypsy woman was seated
on the ground nursing her knees, and occasionally poking a skewer into the round kettle that
sent forth an odorous steam; two small shock-headed children were lying prone and resting on
their elbows something like small sphinxes; and a placid donkey was bending his head over a
tall girl, who, lying on her back, was scratching his nose and indulging him with a bite of
excellent stolen hay. The slanting sunlight fell kindly upon them, and the scene was really
very pretty and comfortable, Maggie thought, only she hoped they would soon set out the teacups.
Everything would be quite charming when she had taught the gypsies to use a washing basin,
and to feel an interest in books. It was a little confusing, though, that the young woman began
to speak to the old one in a language which Maggie did not understand, while the tall girl,
who was feeding the donkey, sat up and stared at her without offering any salutation. At last
the old woman said,--

"What! my pretty lady, are you come to stay with us? Sit ye down and tell us where you come from."

It was just like a story; Maggie liked to be called pretty lady and treated in this way. She
sat down and said,--

"I'm come from home because I'm unhappy, and I mean to be a gypsy. I'll live with you if you
like, and I can teach you a great many things."

"Such a clever little lady," said the woman with the baby, sitting down by Maggie, and allowing
baby to crawl; "and such a pretty bonnet and frock," she added, taking off Maggie's bonnet
and looking at it while she made an observation to the old woman, in the unknown language.
The tall girl snatched the bonnet and put it on her own head hind-foremost with a grin; but
Maggie was determined not to show any weakness on this subject, as if she were susceptible
about her bonnet.

"I don't want to wear a bonnet," she said; "I'd rather wear a red handkerchief, like yours"
(looking at her friend by her side). "My hair was quite long till yesterday, when I cut it
off; but I dare say it will grow again very soon," she added apologetically, thinking it probable
the gypsies had a strong prejudice in favor of long hair. And Maggie had forgotten even her
hunger at that moment in the desire to conciliate gypsy opinion.

"Oh, what a nice little lady!--and rich, I'm sure," said the old woman. "Didn't you live in
a beautiful house at home?"

"Yes, my home is pretty, and I'm very fond of the river, where we go fishing, but I'm often
very unhappy. I should have liked to bring my books with me, but I came away in a hurry, you
know. But I can tell you almost everything there is in my books, I've read them so many times,
and that will amuse you. And I can tell you something about Geography too--that's about the
world we live in--very useful and interesting. Did you ever hear about Columbus?"

Maggie's eyes had begun to sparkle and her cheeks to flush--she was really beginning to instruct
the gypsies, and gaining great influence over them. The gypsies themselves were not without
amazement at this talk, though their attention was divided by the contents of Maggie's pocket,
which the friend at her right hand had by this time emptied without attracting her notice.

"Is that where you live, my little lady?" said the old woman, at the mention of Columbus.

"Oh, no!" said Maggie, with some pity; "Columbus was a very wonderful man, who found out half
the world, and they put chains on him and treated him very badly, you know; it's in my Catechism
of Geography, but perhaps it's rather too long to tell before tea--I want my tea so." 

They were very fair, and very pretty, and very neat. They wore light green stuff frocks, with
lawn aprons and tippets, and little tight neat silk bonnets of the
colour of their frocks.

They both always carried a sort of satchel, as if they were going and coming from school; and there
was often with them, when they went to the village, either a man
or woman servant, such as might be supposed to belong to a farmhouse.

They often, however, passed by the window in the evening without a servant, and sometimes were
met by a servant near the house. These little ones could not, from
their appearance, have been more than seven years of age.

"As Mrs. Howard watched them from day to day, she thought them the pleasantest little people
she had seen for a long time; and all her ancient love for children, which age and weakness
had almost made her fancy was nipped and blighted, began to spring
up again and blossom as flowers in May.

She wished to get acquainted with these fair ones, but she took her own way to do so.

"She began one morning, when her window was open, by giving them a kind smile as they were walking
gravely by, with a man in a smock-frock behind them.

On seeing this smile they both stopped short and dropped formal curtseys.

"From that time, for a week or more, these smiles and these curtseys
passed between the old lady and the twins twice every day regularly.

Before the end of the week the children had left off looking grave at the lady, and gave smile for
smile. You may be sure that Mrs. Howard, though she had not poor Betty and Crop to send on her
errands, did manage to get some pretty toys ready to give these little girls whenever the time
should come when she should think it right to make herself better acquainted with them; but
she thought that she would observe their ways first, and in doing so she saw several things
which pleased her. Once she saw them give a poor beggar some of what had been put in their
satchels for their dinners; and she saw them another time pick up something which a very old man had
dropped, and give it him as politely as they would have done to my lord judge, though it was
only a potato which he had dropped from a basket. Seeing this it reminded her of the old man
and his bundle of sticks, and of the ill-behaviour of Master Bennet; and then all those old
days came fresh to her mind. Mrs. Howard had sent to a friend in London to get the toys--two
dolls exactly alike, and the histories of Miss Jemima Meek and Peter Pippin were the things she
sent for; and they had not arrived a week when Mrs. Howard found a use for them. It was the
beginning of July, and a very hot close day; Mrs. Howard sat at her window, and saw the little ones
go as usual towards the village; it was Saturday, and she knew that they would be back again about
one, for it was a half-holiday.

Maggie felt that it was impossible she should ever be queen of these people, or ever communicate
to them amusing and useful knowledge.

Both the men now seemed to be inquiring about Maggie, for they looked at her, and the tone
of the conversation became of that pacific kind which implies curiosity on one side and the
power of satisfying it on the other. At last the younger woman said in her previous deferential,
coaxing tone,--

"This nice little lady's come to live with us; aren't you glad?"

"Ay, very glad," said the younger man, who was looking at Maggie's silver thimble and other
small matters that had been taken from her pocket. He returned them all except the thimble
to the younger woman, with some observation, and she immediately restored them to Maggie's
pocket, while the men seated themselves, and began to attack the contents of the kettle,--a
stew of meat and potatoes,--which had been taken off the fire and turned out into a yellow platter.

Maggie began to think that Tom must be right about the gypsies; they must certainly be thieves,
unless the man meant to return her thimble by and by. She would willingly have given it to
him, for she was not at all attached to her thimble; but the idea that she was among thieves
prevented her from feeling any comfort in the revival of deference and attention toward her;
all thieves, except Robin Hood, were wicked people. The women saw she was frightened.

"We've got nothing nice for a lady to eat," said the old woman, in her coaxing tone. "And she's
so hungry, sweet little lady."

"Here, my dear, try if you can eat a bit o' this," said the younger woman, handing some of
the stew on a brown dish with an iron spoon to Maggie, who, remembering that the old woman
had seemed angry with her for not liking the bread and bacon, dared not refuse the stew, though
fear had chased away her appetite. If her father would but come by in the gig and take her
up! Or even if Jack the Giantkiller, or Mr. Greatheart, or Saint George who slew the dragon
on the half-pennies, would happen to pass that way! But Maggie thought with a sinking heart
that these heroes were never seen in the neighborhood of Saint Ogg's; nothing very wonderful
ever came there.

Maggie Tulliver, you perceive, was by no means that well-trained, well-informed young person
that a small female of eight or nine necessarily is in these days; she had only been to school
a year at Saint Ogg's, and had so few books that she sometimes read the dictionary; so that
in traveling over her small mind you would have found the most unexpected ignorance as well
as unexpected knowledge. She could have informed you that there was such a word as "polygamy,"
and being also acquainted with "polysyllable," she had deduced the conclusion that "poly" meant
"many"; but she had had no idea that gypsies were not well supplied with groceries, and her
thoughts were the oddest mixture of clear-eyed acumen and blind dreams.

Her ideas about the gypsies had undergone a rapid modification in the last five minutes. From
having considered them very respectful companions, amenable to instruction, she had begun to
think that they meant perhaps to kill her as soon as it was dark, and cut up her body for gradual
cooking; the suspicion crossed her that the fierce-eyed old man was in fact the Devil, who
might drop that transparent disguise at any moment, and turn either into a grinning blacksmith,
or else a fiery-eyed monster with dragon's wings. It was no use trying to eat the stew, and
yet the thing she most dreaded was to offend the gypsies, by betraying her extremely unfavorable
opinion of them; and she wondered, with a keenness of interest that no theologian could have
exceeded, whether, if the Devil were really present, he would know her thoughts.

"What! you don't like the smell of it, my dear," said the young woman, observing that Maggie
did not even take a spoonful of the stew. "Try a bit, come."

"No, thank you," said Maggie, summoning all her force for a desperate effort, and trying to
smile in a friendly way. "I haven't time, I think; it seems getting darker. I think I must
go home now, and come again another day, and then I can bring you a basket with some jam-tarts
and things."

Maggie rose from her seat as she threw out this illusory prospect, devoutly hoping that Apollyon
was gullible; but her hope sank when the old gypsy woman said, "Stop a bit, stop a bit, little
lady; we'll take you home, all safe, when we've done supper; you shall ride home, like a lady."

Maggie sat down again, with little faith in this promise, though she presently saw the tall
girl putting a bridle on the donkey, and throwing a couple of bags on his back.

"Now, then, little missis," said the younger man, rising, and leading the donkey forward, "tell
us where you live; what's the name of the place?"

"Dorlcote Mill is my home," said Maggie, eagerly. "My father is Mr. Tulliver; he lives there."

"What! a big mill a little way this side o' Saint Ogg's?"

"Yes," said Maggie. "Is it far off? I think I should like to walk there, if you please."

"No, no, it'll be getting dark, we must make haste. And the donkey'll carry you as nice as
can be; you'll see."

He lifted Maggie as he spoke, and set her on the donkey. She felt relieved that it was not
the old man who seemed to be going with her, but she had only a trembling hope that she was
really going home.

"Here's your pretty bonnet," said the younger woman, putting that recently despised but now
welcome article of costume on Maggie's head; "and you'll say we've been very good to you, won't
you? and what a nice little lady we said you was."

"Oh yes, thank you," said Maggie, "I'm very much obliged to you. But I wish you'd go with me
too." She thought anything was better than going with one of the dreadful men alone; it would
be more cheerful to be murdered by a larger party.

"Ah, you're fondest o' me, aren't you?" said the woman. "But I can't go; you'll go too fast
for me."

It now appeared that the man also was to be seated on the donkey, holding Maggie before him,
and she was as incapable of remonstrating against this arrangement as the donkey himself, though
no nightmare had ever seemed to her more horrible. When the woman had patted her on the back
and said "Good-bye," the donkey, at a strong hint from the man's stick, set off at a rapid
walk along the lane toward the point Maggie had come from an hour ago, while the tall girl
and the rough urchin, also furnished with sticks, obligingly escorted them for the first hundred
yards, with much screaming and thwacking.

Not Leonore, in that preternatural midnight excursion with her phantom lover, was more terrified
than poor Maggie in this entirely natural ride on a short-paced donkey, with a gypsy behind
her, who considered that he was earning half-a-crown. The red light of the setting sun seemed
to have a portentous meaning, with which the alarming bray of the second donkey with the log
on its foot must surely have some connection. Two low thatched cottages--the only houses they
passed in this lane--seemed to add to its dreariness; they had no windows to speak of, and
the doors were closed; it was probable that they were inhabited by witches, and it was a relief
to find that the donkey did not stop there.

At last--oh, sight of joy!--this lane, the longest in the world, was coming to an end, was
opening on a broad highroad, where there was actually a coach passing! And there was a finger-post
at the corner,--she had surely seen that finger-post before,--"To Saint Ogg's, 2 miles." The
gypsy really meant to take her home, then; he was probably a good man, after all, and might
have been rather hurt at the thought that she didn't like coming with him alone. This idea
became stronger as she felt more and more certain that she knew the road quite well, and she
was considering how she might open a conversation with the injured gypsy, and not only gratify
his feelings, but efface the impression of her cowardice, when, as they reached a crossroad,
Maggie caught sight of some one coming on a white-faced horse.

"Oh, stop, stop!" she cried out. "There's my father! Oh, father, father!"

The sudden joy was almost painful, and before her father reached her, she was sobbing. Great
was Mr. Tulliver's wonder, for he had made a round from Basset, and had not yet been home.

"Why, what's the meaning o' this?" he said, checking his horse, while Maggie slipped from the
donkey and ran to her father's stirrup.

"The little miss lost herself, I reckon," said the gypsy. "She'd come to our tent at the far
end o' Dunlow Lane, and I was bringing her where she said her home was. It's a good way to
come after being on the tramp all day."

"Oh yes, father, he's been very good to bring me home," said Maggie,--"a very kind, good man!"

"Here, then, my man," said Mr. Tulliver, taking out five shillings. "It's the best day's work
you ever did. I couldn't afford to lose the little wench; here, lift her up before me."

"Why, Maggie, how's this, how's this?" he said, as they rode along, while she laid her head
against her father and sobbed. "How came you to be rambling about and lose yourself?"

"Oh, father," sobbed Maggie, "I ran away because I was so unhappy; Tom was so angry with me.
I couldn't bear it."

"Pooh, pooh," said Mr. Tulliver, soothingly, "you mustn't think o' running away from father.
What 'ud father do without his little wench?"

"Oh, no, I never will again, father--never."

Mr. Tulliver spoke his mind very strongly when he reached home that evening; and the effect
was seen in the remarkable fact that Maggie never heard one reproach from her mother, or one
taunt from Tom, about this foolish business of her running away to the gypsies. Maggie was
rather awe-stricken by this unusual treatment, and sometimes thought that her conduct had been
too wicked to be alluded to.

     Of the three children who are presented to us in these chapters,
     Tom, Maggie and little Lucy, which is the most attractive to you?

     Do you think the author meant us to receive this impression?

     Is Maggie proud? Is she impetuous? Is she highly sensitive? Find as
     many passages as you can which prove your answers to these
     questions. Do these qualities usually make a person attractive?

     What is the mainspring of Maggie's character--the motive for most
     of her actions? Does Tom seem to you worthy of the intense
     affection she bestows upon him? Do you think a person with Maggie's
     nature would be likely to live a happy or an unhappy life?

     Few writers have ever been able to draw as distinct, lifelike a
     picture of a child as we have of Maggie Tulliver in The Mill on
     the Floss. This is to be in part accounted for by the fact that it
     is herself as a child that George Eliot is describing.

A GORILLA HUNT

By PAUL DU CHAILLU

I had not been at the village long before news came that gorillas had been recently seen in
the neighborhood of a plantation only half a mile distant. Early in the morning of the twenty-fifth
of June, I wended my way thither, accompanied by one of my boys, named Odanga. The plantation
was a large one, and situated on very broken ground, surrounded by the virgin forest. It was
a lovely morning; the sky was almost cloudless, and all around was still as death, except the
slight rustling of the tree tops moved by the gentle land breeze. When I reached the place,
I had first to pick my way through the maze of tree stumps and half-burnt logs by the side
of a field of cassada. I was going quietly along the borders of this, when I heard, in the
grove of plantain trees towards which I was walking, a great crashing noise, like the breaking
of trees. I immediately hid myself behind a bush, and was soon gratified with the sight of
a female gorilla; but before I had time to notice its movements, a second and third emerged
from the masses of colossal foliage; at length no less than four came into view.

They were all busily engaged in tearing down the larger trees. One of the females had a young
one following her. I had an excellent opportunity of watching the movements of the impish-looking
band. The shaggy hides, the protuberant abdomens, the hideous features of these strange creatures,
whose forms so nearly resemble man, made up a picture like a vision in some morbid dream. In
destroying a tree, they first grasped the base of the stem with one of their feet, and then
with their powerful arms pulled it down, a matter of not much difficulty with so loosely formed
a stem as that of the plantain. They then set upon the juicy heart of the trees at the bases
of the leaves, and devoured it with great voracity. While eating they made a kind of clucking
noise, expressive of contentment. Many trees they destroyed apparently out of pure mischief.
Now and then they stood still and looked around. Once or twice they seemed on the point of
starting off in alarm, but recovered themselves and continued their work. Gradually they got
nearer to the edge of the dark forest, and finally disappeared. I was so intent on watching
them, that I let go the last chance of shooting one almost before I became aware of it.

The next day I went again with Odanga to the same spot. I had no expectation of seeing gorillas
in the same plantation, and was carrying a light shot gun, having given my heavy double-barreled
rifle to the boy to carry. The plantation extended over two hills, with a deep hollow between,
planted with sugar cane. Before I had crossed the hollow I saw on the opposite slope a monstrous
gorilla, standing erect and looking directly towards me. Without turning my face I beckoned
to the boy to bring me my rifle, but no rifle came,--the little coward had bolted, and I lost
my chance. The huge beast stared at me for about two minutes, and then, without uttering any
cry, moved off to the shade of the forest, running nimbly on his hands and feet.

As my readers may easily imagine, I had excellent opportunity of observing, during these two
days, the manner in which the gorillas walked when in open ground. They move along with great
rapidity and on all fours, that is, with the knuckles of their hands touching the ground. Artists,
in representing the gorilla walking, generally make the arms too much bowed outwards, and the
elbows too much bent; this gives the figures an appearance of heaviness and awkwardness. When
the gorillas that I watched left their plantain trees, they moved off at a great pace over
the ground, with their arms extended straight forward towards the ground, and moving rapidly.
I may mention also that having now opened the stomachs of several freshly killed gorillas,
I have never found anything but vegetable matter in them.

When I returned to Nkongon Mboumba I found there my old friend Akondogo, chief of one of the
Commi villages, who had just returned from the Ngobi country, a little further south. To my
great surprise and pleasure, he had brought for me a living gorilla, a young one, but the largest
I had ever seen captured alive. Like Joe, the young male whose habits in confinement I described
in 'Equatorial Africa,' this one showed the most violent and ungovernable disposition. "'I am old,
my dears,' she answered, 'and cannot bear noise and bustle; if you can be quiet, I shall be
glad to see you often, but if you tire me I cannot have you.'

"'I hope we shall be quiet,' they answered; and then they asked her
if she was very, very old. The injury caused to this
one by the forked stick eventually caused his death. As I had some more hunting to do, I left
the animal in charge of Akondogo until he should have an opportunity of sending it to me on
the Fernand Vaz.

The natives of all the neighboring country were now so well aware that I wanted live gorillas,
and was willing to give a high price for them, that many were stimulated to search with great
perseverance; the good effects of this were soon made evident.

