So to Lisbon Columbus went, and his ardent spirit found a great stimulus in the adventurous
atmosphere of that bustling city. He went to work as a map-maker, marrying the daughter of
one of the captains of Prince Henry the Navigator, from whom he secured a great variety of
maps, charts and memoranda. His business kept him in close touch with both mariners and astronomers,
so that he was acquainted with every development of both discovery and theory. In more than
one mind the conviction was growing up that the eastern shore of Asia could be reached by sailing
westward from Europe--a conviction springing naturally enough from the belief that the earth
was round, which was steadily gaining wider and wider acceptance. In fact, a Florentine astronomer
named Toscanelli furnished Columbus with a map showing how this voyage could be accomplished,
and Columbus afterwards used this map in determining his route.

That the idea was not original with Columbus takes nothing from his fame; his greatness lies
in being the first fully to grasp its meaning, fully to believe it, fully to devote his life
to it. For the last measure of a man's devotion to an idea is his willingness to stake his
life upon it, as Columbus staked his. The idea possessed him; there was room in him only for
a dogged determination to realize it, to trample down such obstacles as might arise to keep
him from his goal. And obstacles enough there were, for many years of waiting and disappointment
lay before him--years during which, a shabby and melancholy figure, laughed at and scorned,
mocked by the very children in the streets, he "begged his way from court to court, to offer
to princes the discovery of a world." And here again was his true greatness--that he did not
despair, that his spirit remained unbroken and his high heart still capable of hope.

Yet let us not idealize him too much. The eagerness to reach the Indies was wholly because
of the riches which they possessed. The spice trade was especially coveted, and tradition told
of golden cities of fabulous wealth and beauty which lay in the country to the east. The great
motive behind all the early voyages was hope of gain, and Columbus had his full share of it. 132

What,
then, is the origin of the envy of the gods? people did not believe in a calm, quiet happiness,
but only in an exuberant one. This must have caused some displeasure to the Greeks; for their
soul was only too easily wounded: it embittered them to see a happy
man.

With his route well-outlined and his plans carefully matured, Columbus turned naturally to
the King of Portugal, John II., as a man interested in all nautical enterprise, and especially
interested in finding a route to the Indies. That crafty monarch listened to Columbus attentively
and was evidently impressed, for he took possession of the maps and plans which Columbus had
prepared, under pretense of examining them while considering the project, placed them in the
hands of one of his own captains and dispatched him secretly to try the route. That captain,
whose name has been lost to history, must afterwards have been chagrined enough at the manner
in which he missed immortal fame, for, after sailing a few days to the westward, he turned
back and reported to his royal master that the thing could not be done. His was not the heart
for such an enterprise.

Columbus, learning of the king's treachery, left the court in disgust, and sending his brother,
Bartholomew, to lay the plan before the King of England, himself proceeded to Spain, whose
rulers, Ferdinand and Isabella, were perhaps the most enlightened of the age. Of Bartholomew's
adventures in England little is known. One thing alone is certain--England missed the great
opportunity just as Portugal had. And for long years it seemed that, in Spain, Columbus would
have no better fortune. The Spanish monarchs listened to him with interest--as who would not?--and
appointed a council of astronomers and map-makers to examine the project and to pass upon its
feasibility. This council, not without the connivance of the king and queen, who were absorbed
in war with the Moors, and who, at the same time, did not wish the plan to be taken elsewhere,
kept Columbus waiting for six years, alternating between hope and despair, and finally reported
that the project was "vain and impossible of execution."

Indignant at thought of the years he had wasted, Columbus determined to proceed to Paris, to
seek an audience of the King of France. His wife was dead, and he started for Palos, with his
little son, Diego, intending to leave the boy with his wife's sister there, while he himself
journeyed on to Paris. Trudging wearily across the country, they came one night to the convent
of La Rabida, and Columbus stopped to ask for a crust of bread and cup of water for the child.
The prior, Juan Perez de Marchena, struck by his noble bearing, entered into conversation with
him and was soon so interested that he invited the travellers in.

Marchena had been Isabella's confessor, and still had great influence with her. After carefully
considering the project which Columbus laid before him, he went to the queen in person and
implored her to reconsider it. His plea was successful, and Columbus was again summoned to
appear at court, a small sum of money being sent him so that he need not appear in rags. The
Spanish monarchs received him well, but when they found that he demanded the title of admiral
at once, and, in case of success, the title of viceroy, together with a tenth part of all profits
resulting from either trade or conquest, they abruptly broke off the negotiations, and Columbus,
mounting a mule which had been given him, started a second time for Paris. He had proceeded
four or five miles, in what sadness and turmoil of spirit may be imagined, when a royal messenger,
riding furiously, overtook him and bade him return. His terms had been accepted.

This is what had happened: In despair at the departure of Columbus, Luis de Santangel, receiver
of the revenues of Aragon, and one of the few converts to his theories, had obtained an audience
of the queen, and pointed out to her, with impassioned eloquence, the glory which Spain would
win should Columbus be successful. The queen's patriotic ardor was enkindled, and when Ferdinand
still hesitated, she cried, "I undertake the enterprise for my own crown of Castile. I will
pledge my jewels to raise the money that is needed!" Santangel assured her that he himself
was ready to provide the money, and advanced seventeen thousand florins from the coffers of
Aragon, so that Ferdinand paid for the expedition, after all.

It is in no way strange that the demands of Columbus should have been thought excessive; indeed,
the wonderful thing is that they should, under any circumstances, have been agreed to. Here
was a man, to all appearances a penniless adventurer, asking for honors, dignities and rewards
which any grandee of Spain might have envied him. That they should have been granted was due
to the impulsive sympathy of Isabella and the indifference of her royal consort, who said neither
yes nor no; though, in the light of subsequent events, it is not improbable that the thought
may have crossed his mind that royal favor may always be withdrawn, and that the hand which
gives may also take away.

But though Columbus had triumphed in this particular, his trials were by no means at an end.
The little port of Palos was commanded by royal order to furnish the new Admiral with two small
vessels known as caravels. This was soon done, but no sailors were willing to embark on such
a voyage, the maddest in all history. Only by the most extreme measures, by impressment and
the release of criminals willing to accompany the expedition in order to get out of jail, were
crews finally provided. A third small vessel was secured, and on the morning of Friday, August
3, 1492, this tiny fleet of three boats, the Santa Maria, the Pinta and the Niña, whose combined
crews numbered less than ninety men, sailed out from Palos on the grandest voyage the world
has ever known.

The shore was lined with people weeping and wringing their hands for the relatives and friends
whom they were sure they should never see again, and most of the sailors were certain that
they were bidding farewell forever to their native land. Even at the present day, few men would
care to undertake such a voyage in such ships. The two little caravels, Niña and Pinta, were
decked only at stern and prow. The Santa Maria was but little larger, her length being only
about sixty feet, and all three of the vessels were old, leaky, and in need of frequent repairs.

The map which Toscanelli had given Columbus years before showed Japan lying directly west of
the Canaries, so to the Canaries Columbus steered his fleet, and then set forth westward into
the unknown. By a fortunate chance, it was the very best route he could have chosen, for he
came at once into the region of the trade winds, which, blowing steadily from the east, drove
the vessels westward day after day over a smooth sea. The blessings of labour! Nugari was the
Roman name for all the exertions and aspirations of the Greeks.
No happy course of life is open to the genius, he stands in contradiction
to his age and must perforce struggle with it. They
implored Columbus to turn back; but to turn back was the last thing in his thoughts. An opportune
storm helped to reassure his men by proving that the wind did not always blow from the east
and that the sea was not always calm.

But there were soon other causes of alarm. The compass varied strangely, and what hope for
them was there if this, their only guide, proved faithless? They ran into vast meadows of floating
seaweed, the Sargasso Sea, and it seemed certain that the ships would soon be so entangled
that they could move neither backward nor forward. Still Columbus pushed steadily on, and his
men's terror and angry discontent deepened until they were on the verge of mutiny; various
plots were hatched and it was evident that affairs would soon reach a crisis.

One can guess the Admiral's thoughts as he paced the poop of his ship on that last night, pausing
from time to time to strain his eyes into the darkness. Picture him to yourself--a tall and
imposing figure, clad in that gray habit of the Franciscan missionary he liked to wear; the
face stern and lined with care, the eyes gray and piercing, the high nose and long chin telling
of a mighty will, the cheeks ruddy and freckled from life in the open, the white hair falling
about his shoulders. Picture him standing there, a memorable figure, whose hour of triumph
was at hand. He knew the desperate condition of things--none better; he knew that his men were
for the most part criminals and cowards; at any moment they might rise and make him prisoner
or throw him overboard. Well, until that moment, he would hold his ship's prow to the west!
For twenty years he had labored to get this chance; he would rather die than fail.

And then, suddenly, far ahead, he saw a light moving low along the horizon. It disappeared,
reappeared, and then vanished altogether. The lookout had also seen it, and soon after, as
the moon rose, a gun from the Pinta, which was in the lead, announced that land had been sighted.
It was soon plainly visible to everyone, a low beach gleaming white in the moonlight, and the
ships hove-to until daybreak.

In the early dawn of the twelfth day of October, 1492, the boats were lowered, and Columbus
and a large part of his company went ashore, wild with exultation. They found themselves on
a small island, and Columbus named it San Salvador. It was one of the Bahamas, but which one
is not certainly known. Columbus, of course, believed himself near the coast of Asia, and spent
two months in searching for Japan, discovering a number of islands, but no trace of the land
of gold and spices which he sought. One of his ships was wrecked and the captain of the third
sailed away to search for gold on his own account, so that it was in the little Niña alone
that Columbus at last set sail for Spain.

It was no longer a summer sea through which the tiny vessel ploughed her way, but a sea swept
by savage hurricanes. More than once it seemed that the ship must founder, but by some miracle
it kept afloat, and on March 15, 1493, sailed again into the port of Palos. The great navigator
was received with triumphal honors by Ferdinand and Isabella, and invited to sit in their presence
while he told the wonderful story of his discoveries.

Wonderful indeed! Yet what a dizziness would have seized that audience could they have guessed
the truth! Could they have guessed that the proud kingdom of Spain was but an insignificant
patch compared with the vast continent Columbus had discovered and upon which a score of nations
were to dwell.

The life-work of the great navigator practically ended on the day he told his story to the
court of Spain, for, though he led three other expeditions across the ocean, the discoveries
they made were of no great importance. Not a trace did he find of that golden country, which
he sought so eagerly, and at last, broken in health and fortune, in disfavor at court, stripped
of the rewards and dignities which had been promised him, he died in a little house at Valladolid
on the twentieth of May, 1506. He believed to the last that it was the Indies he had discovered,
never dreaming that he had given a new continent to the world.

Yet is his fame secure, for the task which he accomplished was unique, never to be repeated.
He had robbed the Sea of Darkness of its terrors, and while those who followed him had need
of courage and resolution, it was no longer into the unknown that they sailed forth. They knew
that there was no danger of sailing over the edge and dropping off into space; they knew that
there were no dragons, nor monsters, nor other blood-curdling terrors to be encountered, but
that the other side of the world was much like the side they lived on. That was Columbus's
great achievement. To cross the Atlantic, perilous as the voyage was, was after all a little
thing; but actually to start--to surmount the wall of bigotry and ignorance which, for centuries,
had shut the west away from the east, to surmount that wall and throw it down by a faith which
rose superior to human belief and incredulity and terror of the unknown--there was the miracle!

       *       *       *       *       *

Many there were to follow, each contributing his mite toward the task of defining the new continent.
Perhaps you have seen a photographic negative slowly take shape in the acid bath--the sharp
out-lines first, then, bit by bit, the detail. Just so did America grow beneath the gaze of
Europe, though two centuries and more were to elapse before it stood out upon the map clean-cut
and definite from border to border.

First to follow Columbus, and the first white men since the vikings to set foot on the North
American continent, which Columbus himself had never seen, were John and Sebastian Cabot, Italians
like their predecessor, but in the service of the King of England and with an English ship
and an English crew prophetic of the race which was, in time, to wrest the supremacy of the
continent from the other nations of Europe. They explored the coast from Newfoundland as far
south, perhaps, as Chesapeake Bay, and upon their discoveries rested the English claim to North
America, though they themselves are little more than faint and ill-defined shadows upon the
page of history, so little do we know of them.

And just as the New World was eventually to be dominated by a nation other than that which
first took possession of it, so was it to be named after a man other than its discoverer: an
inconsiderable adventurer named Amerigo Vespucci, a Florentine, who accompanied three or four
Spanish expeditions as astronomer or pilot, but who had no part in any real discovery in the
New World. He wrote a number of letters describing the voyages which he claimed to have made,
and one of these was printed in a pamphlet which had a wide circulation, so that Vespucci's
name came to be connected in the public mind with the new land in the west much more prominently
than that of any other man. In 1502, in a little book dealing with the new discoveries, the
suggestion was made that there was nothing "rightly to hinder us from calling it [the New World]
Amerige or America, i.e., the land of Americus," and America it was thenceforward--one of the
great injustices of history. Since it had to be so, let us be thankful that it was Vespucci's
first name which was selected, and not his last one.

Meanwhile, the Spaniards had pushed their way across the Caribbean and explored the shores
of the gulf, finding at last in Mexico a land of gold. World-worn, disease-racked Ponce de
Leon, conqueror and governor of Porto Rico, struggled through the everglades of Florida, seeking
the fountain of eternal youth, and getting his death-wound there instead. Ferdinand Magellan,
man of iron if there ever was one, seeking a western passage to the Moluccas, skirted the coast
of South America, wintered amid the snows of Patagonia, worked his way through the strait which
bears his name, and held on westward across the Pacific, making the first circumnavigation
of the globe, a feat so startling in audacity that there is none in our day to compare with
it, except, perhaps, a journey to another planet. Magellan himself never again saw Europe,
meeting his death in a fight with the natives of the Philippines, but one of his ships, with
eighteen men, struggled south along the coast of Africa, around the Cape of Good Hope, and so home.

Half a century was to elapse before the feat was repeated--this time by that slave-trader,
pirate, and doughty scourge of the Spaniard, Sir Francis Drake, who, following in Magellan's
wake, and pausing only long enough to harry the Spanish settlements in Chili and Peru and capture
a Spanish treasureship, held northward along the coast as far as southern Oregon, and then
turned westward across the Pacific, around the Cape of Good Hope, and home again, where Elizabeth,
in spite of Spanish protests, was waiting to reward him with a touch of sword to shoulder.
The Muse of History smiles ironically when she records that Drake's principal discovery in
the New World was that of the potato, which he introduced into England. 

A man chooses his calling before he is fitted to exercise his faculty of choice. He does not
know the number of different callings and professions that exist; he does not know himself; and
then he wastes his years of activity in this calling, applies all his mind to it, and becomes
experienced and practical. When, afterwards, his understanding has become fully developed, it is generally
too late to start something new; for wisdom on earth has almost always had something of the weakness
of old age and lack of vigour about it.

For the most part the task is to make good, and to set to rights as well as possible, that which
was bungled in the beginning. Many will come to recognise that the
latter part of their life shows a purpose or design which has sprung
from a primary discord: it is hard to live through it. Jacques Cartier,
following another will-o'-the-wisp to the north, and searching for the storied city of Norembega,
supposed to exist somewhere in the wilderness south of Cape Breton, found it not, indeed, but
laid the foundations for the great empire which France was to establish along the St. Lawrence.

And Henry Hudson, in the little Half-Moon, chartered by a company of thrifty Dutchmen to search
for the northwest passage, blundered instead upon the mighty river which bears his name, explored
it as far north as the present city of Albany, and paved the way for that picturesque Dutch
settlement which grew into the greatest city of the New World. He did more than that, for,
persevering in the search and sailing far to the north, he came, at last, into the great bay
also named for him, where tragic fate lay waiting. For there, in that icy fastness of the north,
his mutinous crew bound him, set him adrift in a small boat, and sailed away and left him.

So, by the beginning of the seventeenth century, the New World was fairly well defined upon
the maps which the map-makers were always industriously drawing; and so were the spheres of
influence where each nation was to be for a time paramount; the Spaniards in the Gulf of Mexico,
the Dutch along the Hudson, the French on the St. Lawrence, and the English on the long coast
to the south. But in all the leagues and leagues from the St. Lawrence to the Gulf, nowhere
had the white man as yet succeeded in gaining a permanent foothold.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although the continent of North America had been discovered by John Cabot in 1497, nearly a
century elapsed before England made any serious attempt to take possession of it. Cabot's voyages
had created little impression, for he had returned from them empty-handed; instead of finding
the passage to the Indies which he sought, he had discovered nothing but an inconvenient and
apparently worthless barrier stretching across the way, and for many years the great continent
was regarded only in that light, and such explorations as were made were with the one object
of getting through it or around it. In fact, as late as 1787, opinion in Europe was divided
as to whether the discovery of the New World had been a blessing or a curse.

But Spain had been working industriously. The honor of giving America to the world was hers,
and she followed that first discovery by centuries of such pioneering as the world had never
seen. Her explorers overran Mexico and Peru, discovered the Mississippi, the Pacific, carved
their way up into the interior of the continent, looked down upon the wonders of the Grand
Canyon of the Colorado, founded settlements up and down the land from Kansas to Chili--yes,
and did more than that. They opened the first churches, set up the first presses, printed the
first books, wrote the first histories, drew the first accurate maps. They established schools
among the Indians, sent missionaries to them, translated the Bible into twelve Indian dialects,
made thousands of converts, and established an Indian policy as humane and enlightened--once
Spanish supremacy was recognized--as any in the world. The savages with whom Spain had to contend
were the deadliest, the most cruel, that Europeans ever encountered--no more resembling the
warriors of King Philip and the Powhatan than a house-cat resembles a panther. They conquered
them without extermination, and converted them to Christianity! An amazing feat, and one which
disposes for all time of that old, outworn legend that the Spain of the fifteenth and early
sixteenth centuries was a moribund and degenerate nation.

But a change was at hand. The world moved, and Spain, chained to an outworn superstition, did
not move with it. The treasure she drew from Mexico and Peru she poured out to prop the tottering
pillars of church despotism; and the end came when, in 1588, Elizabeth's doughty captains wiped
out the "invincible" armada, and dethroned Spain for all time from her position as mistress
of the seas.

It was then that English eyes turned toward the New World and that projects of colonization
were set afoot in earnest; and the one great dominant hero of that early movement was Sir Walter
Raleigh. He had accompanied his half-brother, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, on a voyage to the New
World ten years earlier, and after Gilbert's tragic death, took over the patent for land in
America which Gilbert held. It is worth noting that this patent provided in the plainest terms
that such colonies as might be planted in America should be self-governing in the fullest sense--a
provision also included in the patent granted to the company which afterwards succeeded in
gaining and maintaining a foothold on the James.

Raleigh spent nearly a million dollars in endeavoring to establish a colony on Roanoke Island--a
colony which absolutely disappeared, and whose fate was never certainly discovered; and it
was not until the Virgin Queen, after whom all that portion of the country had been named,
was dead, and Raleigh himself, shorn of his estates, was a prisoner in the Tower under charge
of treason, that a new charter was given to an association of influential men known as the
Virginia Company, which was destined to have permanent results. On New Year's Day, 1607, an
expedition of three ships, carrying, besides their crews, one hundred and five colonists, started
on the voyage across the ocean, under command of Captain Christopher Newport. Among Newport's
company was a scarred and weather-beaten soldier, who was soon to assume control of events
through sheer fitness for the task, and who bore that commonest of all English names, John Smith.

But John Smith's career had been anything but common. Born in Lincolnshire in 1579, and early
left an orphan, he had gone to the Netherlands while still in his teens, and had spent three
years there fighting against the Spaniards. A year or two later, he had embarked with a company
of Catholic pilgrims for the Levant, intent on fighting against the Turk, but a storm arose
which all attributed to the presence of the Huguenot heretic on board, and he was forthwith
flung into the sea. Whether the storm thereupon abated, history does not state, but Smith managed
to swim to a small island, from which he was rescued next day. Journeying across Europe to
Styria, he entered the service of Emperor Rudolph II., and spent two or three years fighting
against the Turks, accomplishing feats so surprising that one would be inclined to class them
with those of Baron Munchausen, were they not, for the most part, well authenticated. He was
captured, at last, but managed to escape, and made his way across the Styrian desert, through
Russia, Poland, Hungary, Bohemia, and finally back to England, just in time to meet Captain
Newport, and arrange to sail with him for Virginia.

It is not remarkable that a man tried by such experiences should, from the first, have taken
a prominent part in the enterprise. An unwelcome part in the beginning, for scarcely had the
voyage begun, when he was accused of plotting mutiny, arrested and kept in irons until the
ships reached Virginia. Late in April, the fleet entered Hampton Roads, and proceeding up the
river, which was forthwith named the James, came at last on May 13th, to a low peninsula which
seemed suited for a settlement. The next day they set to work building a fort, which they called
Fort James, but the settlement soon came to be known as Jamestown.

