A little before the summer solstice the earth is whizzing away from the sun; a few weeks later
it is whizzing with equal rapidity in almost the opposite direction. 1840.

This No. contains 1 sheet.--Postage, under 100 miles, 1-1/2 ct. over 100, 2-1/2 cts. Please
Read and circulate.

ADDRESS.

TO THE FRIENDS OF CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTY:--

There was a time, fellow citizens, when the above address would have included the PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES. But, alas! the freedom of the press, freedom of speech, and the right of petition,
are now hated and dreaded by our Southern citizens, as hostile to the perpetuity of human bondage;
while, by their political influence in the Federal Government, they have induced numbers at
the North to unite with them in their sacrilegious crusade against
these inestimable privileges.

On the 28th January last, the House of Representatives, on motion of Mr. Johnson, from Maryland,
made it a standing RULE of the House that "no petition, memorial, resolution, or other paper, praying
the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, or any State or Territory of the United States,
in which it now exists, SHALL BE RECEIVED BY THE HOUSE, OR ENTERTAINED IN ANY WAY WHATEVER."

Thus
has the RIGHT OF PETITION been immolated in the very Temple of Liberty, and offered up, a
propitiatory sacrifice to the demon of slavery. Never before has an outrage so unblushingly
profligate been perpetrated upon the Federal Constitution. Yet, while we mourn the degeneracy
which this transaction evinces, we behold, in its attending circumstances, joyful omens of
the triumph which awaits our struggle with the hateful power that now perverts the General Government
into an engine of cruelty and loathsome oppression.

Before we congratulate you on these omens, let us recall to your recollection the steps by which
the enemies of human rights have advanced to their present rash and
insolent defiance of moral and constitutional obligation.

In 1831, a newspaper was established in Boston, for the purpose of disseminating facts and arguments
in favor of the duty and policy of immediate emancipation. The Legislature of Georgia, with all the
recklessness of despotism, passed a law, offering a reward of $5000, for the abduction of the Editor,
and his delivery in Georgia. As there was no law, by which a citizen of Massachusetts could be
tried in Georgia, for expressing his opinions in the capital of his own State, this reward
was intended as the price of BLOOD. Do you start at the suggestion? Remember the several sums
of $25,000, of $50,000, and of $100,000, offered in Southern papers for kidnapping certain
abolitionists. Remember the horrible inflictions by Southern Lynch clubs. Remember the declaration,
in the United States Senate, by the brazen-fronted Preston, that, should an abolitionist be caught
in Carolina, he would be HANGED. But, as the Slaveholders could not destroy the lives of the Abolitionists,
they determined to murder their characters. Hence, the President of the United States was induced,
in his Message of 1835, to Congress, to charge them with plotting the massacre of the Southern
planters; and even to stultify himself, by affirming that, for this purpose, they were engaged
in sending, by mail, inflammatory appeals to the slaves--sending
papers to men who could not read them, and by a conveyance through
which they could not receive them!

He well knew that the papers alluded to were appeals on the immorality of converting men,
women, and children, into beasts of burden, and were sent to the masters, for their consideration.
The masters in Charleston, dreading the moral influence of these
appeals on the conscience of the slaveholding community, forced the
Post Office, and made a bonfire of the papers. The Post Master General,
with the sanction of the President, also hastened to their relief,
and, in violation of oaths, and laws, and the constitution, established
ten thousand censors of the press, each one of whom was authorized
to abstract from the mail every paper which he might think too favorable
to the rights of man.

For more than twenty years, petitions have
been presented to Congress, for the abolition of slavery in the District
of Columbia. The right to present them, and the power of Congress
to grant their prayer, were, until recently, unquestioned. They
may turn out learned men; do they produce thinkers? And how about the spread of knowledge?
Is it not a spread of information? And most of what goes forth from the press is not worthy
of even that name, or is information which a man had better be without. We are proud of being
a nation of readers. And reading is good, if a man thinks about what he reads; otherwise it
is like undigested food in the stomach, an injury and a curse. A dyspeptic gourmand is helped
by "cutting down his rations." In our mental disease we need the same course of treatment.
Let us read fewer books and papers and think more about what we do read.

Society may foster original thinking; it is none the less opposed to it.

        "Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look,
         He thinks too much; such men are dangerous."

This is the motto of all great parties in Church and State. Still social life has undoubtedly
fostered thought. We think vastly more and better than primitive man; still we have much to
learn. Society puts the experience of centuries at the service of every individual. Poor and
unsatisfactory as are our modes of education, they are a great blessing intellectually and
will become more helpful. And, after all, the friction of mind against mind in social life--provided
social intercourse is this, and not the commingling of two vacua--is a continual education
of inestimable advantage. And all these advantages would without language have been absolutely
impossible. Intellectually our debt to society is inestimable.

And how does social life aid man morally? I cannot help believing that primitive society was
the first school of the human conscience. It was a rude school, but it taught man some grand
lessons.

The primitive clan would seem to have existed as a rude army for the defence of its members
and for offensive operations against enemies. Individual responsibility on the part of its
members was slight for offences against individuals of other clans, or against the gods. For
any such offence of one of its members the whole clan was held, or held itself, largely responsible.
If one man sinned, the clan suffered. It could not therefore afford to pardon wilful disobedience
to regulations made by it or its leaders. Its very existence depended on this strict discipline.
And much the same stern discipline has to be maintained in our modern armies or they become
utterly worthless.

Furthermore, man, as a social being, is very ready to accept the estimate of his actions placed
upon them by his fellows. It is not easy to resist public opinion now. The tie of class or
professional feeling is a tremendous power for good and evil. It must have been almost irresistible
in that primitive army, which summarily outlawed or killed the obstinately disobedient. But
all obedience was lauded and rewarded. It had to be so. And if the tribe was worthy to survive,
because its regulations were better than those of its rivals, or perhaps as nearly just and
right as were well possible, it was altogether best and right it should be so. The voice of
the people was, in a very rude, stammering way, the voice of God. And those who survived became
more and more obedient, and found themselves, when disobedient, feeling debased, and mean,
and unworthy, as their fellows considered them. And all this feeling tended to develop a conscience
in the individual answering to the estimates and regulations of the community.

And remember that the primitive religion is a tribal religion. The gods felt toward a man just
as his neighbors did. A public opinion of this sort is irresistible, and a man's conscience
and estimate of himself and his actions must conform to it. But you may say a man may grant
that this opinion is in a sense irresistible, and find himself very miserable and unhappy under
its condemnation. But he would not feel remorse; this is a very different feeling. Possibly
it may be. I am not so sure. But what I am interested in maintaining is that the condemnation
of one's fellow-men puts more vividly before one's eyes, and emphasizes, the condemnation of
one's own self. It may often be a necessary step in self-conviction. And what is most important,
even in our own case, the condemnation of our fellows often brings with it self-condemnation.

Try the experiment, as you will some day, of following a course of action which you feel fairly
confident is right, but which all your neighbors think is foolish and wrong. See if you do
not feel twinges within you which you must examine very closely to distinguish from twinges
of conscience. If you do not, I see but one explanation--you are conscious that God is with
you, and content with this majority. But in the case of primitive man God was always on the
side of one's tribe.

Now this does not explain the origin of man's conception of right; it presupposes such a conception
in some dim form. I do not now know why right is right or beauty beautiful. I only know they
are so. Where or when either of these perceptions dawned I do not know. But, given some such
dim perception, I believe that primitive human society gave it its iron grip on every fibre
of man's nature.

Before the animal could safely be allowed to govern itself intelligently it had to serve a
long apprenticeship to reflex action and instinct. And man's moral nature had to undergo a
similar apprenticeship to tribal regulation and tribal conscience. Only slowly was instinct
modified and replaced by intelligent action. And how this old tribal conscience persists. Often
for good, although there it were better replaced by an individual conscience working for right.
But how slowly you and I learn that there is a higher responsibility than to party or class.
How often my vote and action are controlled, not by my own conscience, but by the opinion of
my fellows, or the feeling that, if my party suffers defeat, God's work will suffer at the
hands of my opponents. And what is all this but the survival in a very degenerate form of the
old tribal conscience of primitive man? And he knew, and could know, nothing better: I can and do.

But society slowly works for unselfishness. The love learned in the family manifests itself
in ever-widening circles; it must do so if it is the genuine article. It works for neighbors
and friends, then for the poor and helpless of the community. Then it spreads to other communities
and nations. For genuine love recognizes no bounds of time or place. Slowly we learn that we
are our brother's keepers, and that the brotherhood cannot stop short of the human race. Goodness
and kindness radiate from one, perhaps unknown, member of the community to his fellows, and
thence all over the world. And the world is the better for his one action.

Primitive society was thus the best possible school of conscience; and the family and it are
the great school of unselfishness. But society is even more and better than this. It is the
medium through which thought, power, and moral and religious life can spring from man to man.
This is its last and culminating advantage: it is that for which society really exists.

For, in the close bonds of family and social life, a new possibility of development has arisen
based upon articulate speech. We might almost call it a new form of heredity, independent of
all blood-relationship. Progress in anatomical structure in the animal kingdom was slow, because
any improvement could be transmitted only to the direct descendants of its original possessor.
But in all matters pertaining to or based upon mind, a new invention, or idea, or system becomes
the property of him who can best appreciate it. The torch is always handed on to the swiftest
runner. Thus Socrates is the true father of Plato, and Plato of Aristotle. Whoever can best
understand and appreciate and enter into the spirit of Socrates and Plato becomes heir to their
thoughts and interprets them to us. And the thought of one man enriches all races and times.

But a great teacher like Socrates is not merely an intellectual power. "Probe a little deeper,
surgeon," said the French soldier, "and you'll find the emperor." Napoleon may have impressed
himself on the soldier's intellect; he had enthroned himself in his heart. "Slave," said the
old Roman, Marius, to the barbarian who had been sent into the dungeon to despatch him, "slave,
wouldst thou kill Cains Marius?" And the barbarian, though backed by all the power of Rome,
is said to have fled in dismay. Why did he run away? I do not know. I only know that I should
have done the same. One more instance. Some thirty years ago the northern army was fleeing,
a disorganized mob, toward Winchester. Early had fallen upon them suddenly in the gray of the
morning, and, while one corps still held its ground, the rest of the army was melting away
in panic. Then a little red-faced trooper came tearing down the line shouting, "Face the other
way boys; face the other way." And those panic-stricken men turned and rolled an irresistible
avalanche of heroes upon the Confederate lines. What made them turn about? It was something
which I can neither define nor analyze--the personal power of Sheridan. It is the secret of
every great leader of men. Now Sheridan had imparted more than information to these men. Is
it too much to say that he put himself into them? From such men power streams out like electricity
from a huge dynamo.

Now society furnishes the medium through which such a man can act. You have all met such men,
though probably not more than one or two of them. But one such man is a host. They may be men
of few words. But their very presence and look calls out all that is good in you; and while
you are with them evil loses its power. Says the gay and licentious Alcibiades, in Plato's
"Banquet" concerning Socrates:

"When I heard Pericles or any other great orator, I was entertained and delighted, and I felt
that he had spoken well. But no mortal speech has ever excited in my mind such emotions as
are excited by this magician. Whenever I hear him, I am, as it were, charmed and fettered.
My heart leaps like an inspired Corybant. My inmost soul is stung by his words as by the bite
of a serpent. It is indignant at its own rude and ignoble character. I often weep tears of
regret and think how vain and inglorious is the life I lead. Nor am I the only one that weeps
like a child and despairs of himself. Many others are affected in the same way."

These men are the real kings. Their power for good, and sometimes for evil, is inestimable.
And the great advantage of social life, as a means of conforming to environment, is the medium
which it furnishes to conduct the power of such men. Man's last effort toward conformity to
environment, the struggle for existence in its last most real form, is the life and death grapple
between good and evil. For here good and evil, righteousness and sin, come face to face in
spiritual form; "we wrestle not with flesh and blood." Life is more than a game of chess or
whist; it is a great battle; every man must, and does, take sides; he must fight or die. And
the real kings of society are, as a rule, on the side of truth, and aid its triumph. For one
essential condition of such leadership is the power to inspire confidence in the love of the
king for his willing subject. A suspicion of selfish aims in the leader breaks this bond. The
hero must be self-forgetful. This is one reason for man's hero-worship, and the magnetic, dominant
power of the hero. But evil is essentially selfish and can gain and hold this kingship only
as long as it can deceive. And these kings "live forever." Dynasties and empires disappear,
but Socrates and Plato, Luther and Huss, Cromwell and Lincoln, rule an ever-widening kingdom
of ever more loyal subjects.

And society will have leaders; men may set up whatever form of government they will, they are
always searching for a king. And this is no sign of weakness or credulity. Man's desire for
leadership is only another proof of the vast future which he knows is before him, and into
which he longs to be guided. The wiser a man is, the more he desires to be taught; the nobler
he becomes, the more whole-souled is the homage which he pays to the noblest. Is it a sign
of weakness or ignorance in students, of adult age and ripe manhood, to flock to some great
university to hear the wisdom and catch the inspiration of some great master? When Jackson
fell Lee exclaimed, "I have lost my right arm." Was Jackson any the less for being the right
arm to deal, as only he could, the crushing blows planned by the great strategist? 

But the slaveholders, maddened by the failure of all their devices, and fearing the influence which
the mere sight of thousands and tens of thousands of petitions in behalf of liberty, would exert,
and, taking advantage of the approaching presidential election to operate upon the selfishness
of some northern members, have succeeded in crushing the right of petition itself.

That you may be the more sensible, fellow citizens, of the exceeding profligacy of the late RULE
and of its palpable violation of both the spirit and the letter of the Constitution, which those
who voted for it had sworn to support, suffer us to recall to your recollection a few historical
facts.

The framers of the Federal Constitution supposed the right of petition too firmly established
in the habits and affections of the people, to need a constitutional guarantee. Their omission
to notice it, roused the jealousy of some of the State conventions, called to pass upon the constitution.
The Virginia convention proposed, as an amendment, "that every freeman has a right to petition,
or apply to the Legislature, for a redress of grievances." And this amendment, with others,
was ordered to be forwarded to the different States, for their consideration. The Conventions
of North Carolina, New York, and Rhode Island, were held subsequently, and, of course, had before
them the Virginia amendment. The North Carolina Convention adopted a declaration of rights, embracing
the very words of the proposed amendment; and this declaration was ordered to be submitted to Congress,
before that State would enter the Union. The Conventions of New York and of Rhode Island incorporated
in their certificates of ratification, the assertion that "Every
person has a right to petition or apply to the legislature for a redress
of grievances"--using the Virginia phraseology, merely substituting
the word person for freeman, thus claiming the right of petition even
for slaves; while Virginia and North Carolina confined it to freemen.

This amendment was duly ratified by the States, and when members of Congress swear to support
the Constitution of the United States, they are as much bound by their oath to refrain from
abridging the right of petition, as they are to fulfil any other
constitutional obligation.

And will the slaveholders and their abettors, dare to maintain that they have not foresworn
themselves, because they have abridged the right of the people to
petition for a redress of grievances, by a RULE of the House, and
not by a law?

The right to petition is one thing, and the disposition of a petition after it is received, is another.
But the new rule makes no disposition of the petitions; it PROHIBITS THEIR RECEPTION; they may
not be brought into the legislative chamber

. One of
them sets out to become a vertebrate, building an internal skeleton. The other forms an external
skeleton and becomes a crab. To form its skeleton the crab had only to thicken the cuticle
already present in the annelid. It had to modify the already existing parapodia and their muscles,
changing them to legs. The external skeleton gave from the start a double advantage--protection
and better locomotion. Every grain of thickening aided the animal in the struggle for existence
in both these ways. The very fact that the skeleton was external may have rendered it more
liable to variation, because it was thus exposed to continual stimuli. And the best were rapidly
sifted out by Natural Selection. The change and development went on with comparative rapidity.
In the mollusk the change was apparently still more easy and the development still more rapid.

But the development of an internal skeleton was more difficult and slower. It was of no use
for the protection of the animal, and only gradually did it become of much service in locomotion.
Being deep-seated it very possibly changed all the more slowly. Furthermore, a cartilaginous
rod, like the notochord, even fully developed, hardly enabled the animal to fight directly
with the mail-clad crab. The internal skeleton had to become far more highly developed before
its great advantages, and freedom from disadvantages, became apparent. The mollusk and crab
were working a mine rich in surface deposits although soon exhausted. The vertebrate lead was
poor at the surface, and only later showed its inexhaustible richness. It looked as if the
vertebrate were making a very poor speculation.

Whether this explanation be true or not, a glance at a chart, showing the geological succession
of occurrence of the different kingdoms, proves that in the oldest palæozoic periods there
were well-developed cuttlefish and crabs before there were any vertebrates worthy of the name.
If any were present, their skeleton was purely cartilaginous and not preserved.

I think we may go farther, although in this latter consideration we may very possibly be mistaken.
We have already seen that the progress made by any animal may be measured more or less accurately
by the length of time during which its ancestors maintained a swimming life. The ancestors
of the coelenterates settled to the bottom first. Then successively those of flatworms, mollusks,
annelids, and crabs. All this time the ancestors of vertebrates were swimming in the water
above. Food was probably more abundant, certainly more easily and economically obtained by
a creeping life, on the bottom. But thither the vertebrate could not go. There his mail-clad
competitors were too strong for him. Those which settled and tried to compete in this sort
of life perished. We may have to except the ascidia, but they paid for their success by the
loss of nearly all their vertebrate characteristics. The future progress of vertebrates depended
upon their continual activity in the swimming life. And they were forced by their environment
to maintain this. Otherwise they might, probably would, never have attained their present height
of organization. Certainly at this time you would have found it hard to believe that the victory
was to fall to these weaker and smaller vertebrates.

Let us come down to a later period. Reptiles, mammals, and birds are struggling for supremacy.
Of the power and diversity of form of these old reptiles we have generally no adequate conception.
The forms now living are but feeble remnants. There were huge sea-serpents, and forms like
our present crocodiles, but far more powerful. Others apparently resembled in form and habit
the herbivorous and carnivorous mammals of to-day. Others strode or leaped on two legs. And
still others flew like bats or birds. They were terrible forms, with coats of mail and powerful
jaws and teeth. And they were active and swift. When we look at them we see that the vertebrate,
though slow in gaining the lead, is sure to hold it. The internal skeleton gave fewer advantages
at the start; its greatest superiority had lain in future possibilities.

But which vertebrate is heir to the future? It would have been a hard choice between reptile
and bird. I feel sure that I, for one, should not have selected the mammal, a small, feeble
being, hiding in holes and ledges, and continually hard put to it to escape becoming a mouthful
for some huge reptile. And yet the persecution, the impossibility of contending by brute strength,
may have forced the mammal into the line of brain-building and placental development. The early
development of mammals appears to have been slow. Palæontology proves that they were long surpassed
by reptiles and birds. But the little mammal had the future. The battle was to go against the
strong.

Once again. The arboreal life of higher mammals would seem to be most easily explained by the
view that they were driven to it by stronger carnivorous mammals having possession of the ground.
Brain was good, for it planned escape from enemies. But it did not give its possessor immediate
victory over muscle, tooth, and claw in the tiger. That was to come far later with the invention
of traps and guns. Brain gave its possessor a sure hold of the future, and just enough of the
present to enable it to survive by a hard struggle. And the same appears to have been true
of primitive man.

Thus all man's ancestors have had to lead a life of continual struggle against overwhelming
odds and of seeming defeat. We proscribe no man for difference of opinion.

It is said, that having refused in 1840, to say that a man ought to vote, on the ground that such
a resolution would be tyrannical and intolerant, the Society is manifestly inconsistent now in
taking upon itself to say that no abolitionist can consistently vote. But the inconsistency
is only apparent and not real.

There may he a thousand reasons why
a particular individual ought not to do an act, though the act be
innocent in itself. Any
progressive form has to choose between the present and the future. It cannot grasp both. I
am not propounding to you any metaphysical theories, but plain, dry, hard facts of palæontology;
explain them as you will.

And here we must add our last word about conformity to environment; and it is a most important
consideration. Conformity to environment is not such an adaptation as will confer upon an animal
the greatest immunity from discomfort or danger, or will enable it to gain the greatest amount
of food and place, and produce the largest number of offspring. As citizens of the State, we
appeal to the State in vain for protection and redress. As citizens of the United States, we are
treated as outlaws in one half of the country, and the national government
consents to our destruction.
The clam has abundance of food, enormous powers of reproduction, almost perfect protection
against enemies, and lives a life of almost absolute freedom from discomfort, and the clam
is really lower than most worms.

