My heart, struggling between duty and warmth of temper, was full. You know, my dear, I never
could bear to be dealt meanly with!--How--how can you, Sir! you my Papa-uncle--How can you,
Sir!--The poor girl!--for I could not speak with connexion.

Nay, my dear, if you cannot be all duty, all resignation--better stay where you are.--But after
the instance you have given--

Instance I have given!--What instance, Sir?

Well, well, Child, better stay where you are, if your past confinement hangs so heavy upon
you--but now there will be a sudden end to it--Adieu, my dear!--Three words only--Let your
compliance be sincere!--and love me, as you used to love me--your Grandfather did not do so
much for you, as I will do for you.

Without suffering me to reply, he hurried away, as I thought, like one who has been employed
to act a part against his will, and was glad it was over.

Don't you see, my dear Miss Howe, how they are all determined?--Have I not reason to dread
next Tuesday?

Up presently after came my sister:--to observe, I suppose, the way I was in.

She found me in tears.

Have you not a Thomas a Kempis, Sister? with a stiff air.

I have, Madam.

Madam!--How long are we to be at this distance, Clary?

No longer, my dear Bella, if you allow me to call you sister. And I took her hand.

No fawning neither, Girl!

I withdrew my hand as hastily, as you may believe I should have done, had I, in feeling for
one of your parcels under the wood, been bitten by a viper.

I beg pardon, said I,--Too-too ready to make advances, I am always subjecting myself to contempts.

People who know not how to keep a middle behaviour, said she, must ever do so.

I will fetch you the Kempis, Sister. I did. Here it is. You will find excellent things, Bella,
in that little book.

I wish, retorted she, you had profited by them.

I wish you may, said I. Example from a sister older than one's self is a fine thing.

Older! saucy little fool!--And away she flung.

What a captious old woman will my sister make, if she lives to be one!--demanding the reverence,
perhaps, yet not aiming at the merit; and ashamed of the years that can only entitle her to
the reverence.

It is plain, from what I have related, that they think they have got me at some advantage by
obtaining my consent to the interview: but if it were not, Betty's impertinence just now would
make it evident. She has been complimenting me upon it; and upon the visit of my uncle Harlowe.
She says, the difficulty now is more than half over with me. She is sure I would not see Mr.
Solmes, but to have him. Now shall she be soon better employed than of late she has been. All
hands will be at work. She loves dearly to have weddings go forward!--Who knows, whose turn
will be next?

I found in the afternoon a reply to my answer to Mr. Lovelace's letter. It is full of promises,
full of vows of gratitude, of eternal gratitude, is his word, among others still more hyperbolic.
Yet Mr. Lovelace, the least of any man whose letters I have seen, runs into those elevated
absurdities. I should be apt to despise him for it, if he did. Such language looks always to
me, as if the flatterer thought to find a woman a fool, or hoped to make her one.

'He regrets my indifference to him; which puts all the hope he has in my favour upon the shocking
usage I receive from my friends.

'As to my charge upon him of unpoliteness and uncontroulableness--What [he asks] can he say?
since being unable absolutely to vindicate himself, he has too much ingenuousness to attempt
to do so: yet is struck dumb by my harsh construction, that his acknowledging temper is owing
more to his carelessness to defend himself, than to his inclination to amend. He had never
before met with the objections against his morals which I had raised, justly raised: and he
was resolved to obviate them. What is it, he asks, that he has promised, but reformation by
my example? And what occasion for the promise, if he had not faults, and those very great ones,
to reform? He hopes acknowledgement of an error is no bad sign; although my severe virtue has
interpreted it into one.

'He believes I may be right (severely right, he calls it) in my judgment against making reprisals
in the case of the intelligence he receives from my family: he cannot charge himself to be
of a temper that leads him to be inquisitive into any body's private affairs; but hopes, that
the circumstances of the case, and the strange conduct of my friends, will excuse him; especially
when so much depends upon his knowing the movements of a family so violently bent, by measures
right or wrong, to carry their point against me, in malice to him. People, he says, who act
like angels, ought to have angels to deal with. For his part, he has not yet learned the difficult
lesson of returning good for evil: and shall think himself the less encouraged to learn it
by the treatment I have met with from the very persons who would trample upon him, as they
do upon me, were he to lay himself under their feet.

'He excuses himself for the liberties he owns he has heretofore taken in ridiculing the marriage-state.
It is a subject, he says, that he has not of late treated so lightly. He owns it to be so trite,
so beaten a topic with all libertines and witlings; so frothy, so empty, so nothing meaning,
so worn-out a theme, that he is heartily ashamed of himself, ever to have made it his. He condemns
it as a stupid reflection upon the laws and good order of society, and upon a man's own ancestors:
and in himself, who has some reason to value himself upon his descent and alliances, more censurable,
than in those who have not the same advantages to boast of. He promises to be more circumspect
than ever, both in his words and actions, that he may be more and more worthy of my approbation;
and that he may give an assurance before hand, that a foundation is laid in his mind for my
example to work upon with equal reputation and effect to us both;--if he may be so happy to
call me his.

'He gives me up, as absolutely lost, if I go to my uncle Antony's; the close confinement; the
moated house; the chapel; the implacableness of my brother and sister; and their power over
the rest of the family, he sets forth in strong lights; and plainly says, that he must have
a struggle to prevent my being carried thither.'

Your kind, your generous endeavours to interest your mother in my behalf, will, I hope, prevent
those harsher extremities to which I might be otherwise driven. And to you I will fly, if permitted,
and keep all my promises, of not corresponding with any body, not seeing any body, but by your
mother's direction and yours.

I will close and deposit at this place. It is not necessary to say, how much I am

Your ever affectionate and obliged CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XXXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE

I am glad my papers are safe in your hands. I will make it my endeavour to deserve your good
opinion, that I may not at once disgrace your judgment, and my own heart.

I have another letter from Mr. Lovelace. He is extremely apprehensive of the meeting I am to
have with Mr. Solmes to-morrow. He says, 'that the airs that wretch gives himself on the occasion
add to his concern; and it is with infinite difficulty that he prevails upon himself not to
make him a visit to let him know what he may expect, if compulsion be used towards me in his
favour. He assures me, that Solmes has actually talked with tradesmen of new equipages, and
names the people in town with whom he has treated: that he has even' [Was there ever such a
horrid wretch!] 'allotted this and that apartment in his house, for a nursery, and other offices.'

How shall I bear to hear such a creature talk of love to me? I shall be out of all patience
with him. Besides, I thought that he did not dare to make or talk of these impudent preparations.--So
inconsistent as such are with my brother's views--but I fly the subject.

Upon this confidence of Solmes, you will less wonder at that of Lovelace, 'in pressing me in
the name of all his family, to escape from so determined a violence as is intended to be offered
to me at my uncle's: that the forward contriver should propose Lord M.'s chariot and six to
be at the stile that leads up to the lonely coppice adjoining to our paddock. You will see
how audaciously he mentions settlements ready drawn; horsemen ready to mount; and one of his
cousins Montague to be in the chariot, or at the George in the neighbouring village, waiting
to accompany me to Lord M.'s, or to Lady Betty's or Lady Sarah's, or to town, as I please;
and upon such orders, or conditions, and under such restrictions, as to himself, as I shall
prescribe.'

You will see how he threatens, 'To watch and waylay them, and to rescue me as he calls it,
by an armed force of friends and servants, if they attempt to carry me against my will to my
uncle's; and this, whether I give my consent to the enterprise, or not:--since he shall have
no hopes if I am once there.'

O my dear friend! Who can think of these things, and not be extremely miserable in her apprehensions!

This mischievous sex! What had I to do with any of them; or they with me?--I had deserved this,
were it by my own seeking, by my own giddiness, that I had brought myself into this situation--I
wish with all my heart--but how foolish we are apt to wish when we find ourselves unhappy,
and know not how to help ourselves!

On your mother's goodness, however, is my reliance. If I can but avoid being precipitated on
either hand, till my cousin Morden arrives, a reconciliation must follow; and all will be happy.

I have deposited a letter for Mr. Lovelace; in which 'I charge him, as he would not disoblige
me for ever, to avoid any rash step, any visit to Mr. Solmes, which may be followed by acts
of violence.'

I re-assure him, 'That I will sooner die than be that man's wife.

'Whatever be my usage, whatever shall be the result of the apprehended interview, I insist
upon it that he presume not to offer violence to any of my friends: and express myself highly
displeased, that he should presume upon such an interest in my esteem, as to think himself
entitled to dispute my father's authority in my removal to my uncle's; although I tell him,
that I will omit neither prayers nor contrivance, even to the making myself ill, to avoid going.'

To-morrow is Tuesday! How soon comes upon us the day we dread!--Oh that a deep sleep of twenty
four hours would seize my faculties!--But then the next day would be Tuesday, as to all the
effects and purposes for which I so much dread it. If this reach you before the event of the
so much apprehended interview can be known, pray for

Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XXXIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY MORNING, SIX O'CLOCK.

The day is come!--I wish it were happily over. I have had a wretched night. Hardly a wink have
I slept, ruminating upon the approaching interview. The very distance of time to which they
consented, has added solemnity to the meeting, which otherwise it would not have had.

A thoughtful mind is not a blessing to be coveted, unless it had such a happy vivacity with
it as yours: a vivacity, which enables a person to enjoy the present, without being over-anxious
about the future.

TUESDAY, ELEVEN O'CLOCK.

I have had a visit from my aunt Hervey. Betty, in her alarming way, told me, I should have
a lady to breakfast with me, whom I little expected; giving me to believe it was my mother.
This fluttered me so much, on hearing a lady coming up-stairs, supposing it was she, (and not
knowing how to account for her motives in such a visit, after I had been so long banished from
her presence,) that my aunt, at her entrance, took notice of my disorder; and, after her first
salutation,

Why, Miss, said she, you seem surprised.--Upon my word, you thoughtful young ladies have strange
apprehensions about nothing at all. What, taking my hand, can be the matter with you?--Why,
my dear, tremble, tremble, tremble, at this rate? You'll not be fit to be seen by any body.
Come, my love, kissing my cheek, pluck up a courage. By this needless flutter on the approaching
interview, when it is over you will judge of your other antipathies, and laugh at yourself
for giving way to so apprehensive an imagination.

I said, that whatever we strongly imagined, was in its effect at the time more than imaginary,
although to others it might not appear so: that I had not rested one hour all night: that the
impertinent set over me, by giving me room to think my mother was coming up, had so much disconcerted
me, that I should be very little qualified to see any body I disliked to see.

There was no accounting for these things, she said. Mr. Solmes last night supposed he should
be under as much agitation as I could be.

Who is it, then, Madam, that so reluctant an interview on both sides, is to please?

Both of you, my dear, I hope, after the first flurries are over. The most apprehensive beginnings,
I have often known, make the happiest conclusions.

There can be but one happy conclusion to the intended visit; and that is, That both sides may
be satisfied it will be the last.

She then represented how unhappy it would be for me, if I did not suffer myself to be prevailed
upon: she pressed me to receive Mr. Solmes as became my education: and declared, that his apprehensions
on the expectation he had of seeing me, were owing to his love and his awe; intimating, That
true love is ever accompanied by fear and reverence; and that no blustering, braving lover
could deserve encouragement.

To this I answered, That constitution was to be considered: that a man of spirit would act
like one, and could do nothing meanly: that a creeping mind would creep into every thing, where
it had a view to obtain a benefit by it; and insult, where it had power, and nothing to expect:
that this was not a point now to be determined with me: that I had said as much as I could
possibly say on the subject: that this interview was imposed upon me: by those, indeed, who
had a right to impose it: but that it was sorely against my will complied with: and for this
reason, that there was aversion, not wilfulness, in the case; and so nothing could come of
it, but a pretence, as I much apprehended, to use me still more severely than I had been used.

She was then pleased to charge me with prepossession and prejudice. She expatiated upon the
duty of a child. She imputed to me abundance of fine qualities; but told me, that, in this
case, that of persuadableness was wanting to crown all. She insisted upon the merit of obedience,
although my will were not in it. From a little hint I gave of my still greater dislike to see
Mr. Solmes, on account of the freedom I had treated him with, she talked to me of his forgiving
disposition; of his infinite respect for me; and I cannot tell what of this sort.

I never found myself so fretful in my life: and so I told my aunt; and begged her pardon for
it. But she said, it was well disguised then; for she saw nothing but little tremors, which
were usual with young ladies when they were to see their admirers for the first time; and this
might be called so, with respect to me; since it was the first time I had consented to see
Mr. Solmes in that light--but that the next--

How, Madam, interrupted I--Is it then imagined, that I give this meeting on that footing?

To be sure it is, Child.

To be sure it is, Madam! Then I do yet desire to decline it.--I will not, I cannot, see him,
if he expects me to see him upon those terms.

Niceness, punctilio, mere punctilio, Niece!--Can you think that your appointment, (day, place,
hour,) and knowing what the intent of it was, is to be interpreted away as a mere ceremony,
and to mean nothing?--Let me tell you, my dear, your father, mother, uncles, every body, respect
this appointment as the first act of your compliance with their wills: and therefore recede
not, I desire you; but make a merit of what cannot be avoided.

O the hideous wretch!--Pardon me, Madam.--I to be supposed to meet such a man as that, with
such a view! and he to be armed with such an expectation!--But it cannot be that he expects
it, whatever others may do.--It is plain he cannot, by the fears he tell you all he shall have
to see me. If his hope were so audacious, he could not fear so much.

Indeed, he has this hope; and justly founded too. But his fear arises from his reverence, as
I told you before.

His reverence!--his unworthiness!--'Tis so apparent, that even he himself sees it, as well
as every body else. Hence his offers to purchase me! Hence it is, that settlements are to make
up for acknowledged want of merit!

His unworthiness, say you!--Not so fast, my dear. Does not this look like setting a high value
upon yourself?--We all have exalted notions of your merit, Niece; but nevertheless, it would
not be wrong, if you were to arrogate less to yourself; though more were to be your due than
your friends attribute to you.

I am sorry, Madam, it should be thought arrogance in me, to suppose I am not worthy of a better
man than Mr. Solmes, both as to person and mind: and as to fortune, I thank God I despise all
that can be insisted upon in his favour from so poor a plea.

She told me, It signified nothing to talk: I knew the expectation of every one.

Indeed I did not. It was impossible I could think of such a strange expectation, upon a compliance
made only to shew I would comply in all that was in my power to comply with.

I might easily, she said, have supposed, that every one thought I was beginning to oblige them
all, by the kind behaviour of my brother and sister to me in the garden, last Sunday; by my
sister's visit to me afterwards in my chamber (although both more stiffly received by me, than
were either wished or expected); by my uncle Harlowe's affectionate visit to me the same afternoon,
not indeed so very gratefully received as I used to receive his favours:--but this he kindly
imputed to the displeasure I had conceived at my confinement, and to my intention to come off
by degrees, that I might keep myself in countenance for my past opposition.

See, my dear, the low cunning of that Sunday-management, which then so much surprised me! And
see the reason why Dr. Lewen was admitted to visit me, yet forbore to enter upon a subject
about which I thought he came to talk to me!--For it seems there was no occasion to dispute
with me on the point I was to be supposed to have conceded to.--See, also, how unfairly my
brother and sister must have represented their pretended kindness, when (though the had an
end to answer by appearing kind) their antipathy to me seems to have been so strong, that they
could not help insulting me by their arm-in-arm lover-like behaviour to each other; as my sister
afterwards likewise did, when she came to borrow my Kempis.

I lifted up my hands and eyes! I cannot, said I, give this treatment a name! The end so unlikely
to be answered by means so low! I know whose the whole is! He that could get my uncle Harlowe
to contribute his part, and to procure the acquiescence of the rest of my friends to it, must
have the power to do any thing with them against me. 

These reforms, it is claimed, would be accompanied by the elimination of unemployment, poverty, vice,
and attendant evils. It is maintained that socialism would encourage a higher moral tone and a healthier
and more vigorous social life than now exist.

Without doubt these are desirable aims, but we must face the hard fact that socialism is not
likely to attain them.. Some of the ills which socialism claims to be able to cure are neither
attributable to capitalism, nor open to remedy by socialism. For example, crises and unemployment
are often due to the alternations of good and bad harvests, to the
varying degrees of severity in successive winters, to new mechanical
inventions, and to changes in fashion.

These forces are beyond the effective control of any state. This being so, it is unfair for
socialists to attribute their evil effects to capitalism.

It is likewise unwarranted that socialism should claim to be able
effectively to control these forces.

Other industrial evils are due to the infirmities of human nature,
and to the fact that we are a highly civilized people living more
and more under urban conditions.

Crime, vice, and disease are grave social problems which demand solution, but it is unfair for
socialism to charge these evils against capitalism.

Such defects are due partly to the fact that we are human, and partly to the fact that much of
modern life is highly artificial. Unless socialism contemplates a return to small, primitive
communities, there is nothing to indicate that it would be able materially
to reduce crime, vice, nervous strain, or ill-health.

Indeed, there is no evidence to show that socialism could make as
effective headway against these evils as we are making under capitalism.

164.



LETTER XXXIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY EVENING; AND CONTINUED THROUGH THE NIGHT.

Well, my dear, I am alive, and here! but how long I shall be either here, or alive, I cannot
say. I have a vast deal to write; and perhaps shall have little time for it. Nevertheless,
I must tell you how the saucy Betty again discomposed me, when she came up with this Solmes's
message; although, as you will remember from my last, I was in a way before that wanted no
additional surprises.

Miss! Miss! Miss! cried she, as fast as she could speak, with her arms spread abroad, and all
her fingers distended, and held up, will you be pleased to walk down into your own parlour?--There
is every body, I will assure you in full congregation!--And there is Mr. Solmes, as fine as
a lord, with a charming white peruke, fine laced shirt and ruffles, coat trimmed with silver,
and a waistcoat standing on end with lace!--Quite handsome, believe me!--You never saw such
an alteration!--Ah! Miss, shaking her head, 'tis pity you have said so much against him! but
you will know how to come off for all that!--I hope it will not be too late!

Impertinence! said I--Wert thou bid to come up in this fluttering way?--and I took up my fan,
and fanned myself.

Bless me! said she, how soon these fine young ladies will be put into flusterations!--I mean
not either to offend or frighten you, I am sure.--

Every body there, do you say?--Who do you call every body?

Why, Miss, holding out her left palm opened, and with a flourish, and a saucy leer, patting
it with the fore finger of the other, at every mentioned person, there is your papa!--there
is your mamma!--there is your uncle Harlowe!--there is your uncle Antony!--your aunt Hervey!--my
young lady!--and my young master!--and Mr. Solmes, with the air of a great courtier, standing
up, because he named you:--Mrs. Betty, said he, [then the ape of a wench bowed and scraped,
as awkwardly as I suppose the person did whom she endeavoured to imitate,] pray give my humble
service to Miss, and tell her, I wait her commands.

Was not this a wicked wench?--I trembled so, I could hardly stand. I was spiteful enough to
say, that her young mistress, I supposed, bid her put on these airs, to frighten me out of
a capacity of behaving so calmly as should procure me my uncles' compassion.

What a way do you put yourself in, Miss, said the insolent!--Come, dear Madam, taking up my
fan, which I had laid down, and approaching me with it, fanning, shall I--

None of thy impertinence!--But say you, all my friends are below with him? And am I to appear
before them all?

I can't tell if they'll stay when you come. I think they seemed to be moving when Mr. Solmes
gave me his orders.--But what answer shall I carry to the 'squire?

Say, I can't go!--but yet when 'tis over, 'tis over!--Say, I'll wait upon--I'll attend--I'll
come presently--say anything; I care not what--but give me my fan, and fetch me a glass of water--

She went, and I fanned myself all the time; for I was in a flame; and hemmed, and struggled
with myself all I could; and, when she returned, drank my water; and finding no hope presently
of a quieter heart, I sent her down, and followed her with precipitation; trembling so, that,
had I not hurried, I question if I could have got down at all.--Oh my dear, what a poor, passive
machine is the body when the mind is disordered!

There are two doors to my parlour, as I used to call it. As I entered one, my friends hurried
out the other. I just saw the gown of my sister, the last who slid away. My uncle Antony went
out with them: but he staid not long, as you shall hear; and they all remained in the next
parlour, a wainscot partition only parting the two. I remember them both in one: but they were
separated in favour of us girls, for each to receive her visitors in at her pleasure.

Mr. Solmes approached me as soon as I entered, cringing to the ground, a visible confusion
in every feature of his face. After half a dozen choaked-up Madams,--he was very sorry--he
was very much concerned--it was his misfortune--and there he stopped, being unable presently
to complete a sentence.

This gave me a little more presence of mind. Cowardice in a foe begets courage in one's self--I
see that plainly now--yet perhaps, at bottom, the new-made bravo is a greater coward than the
other.

I turned from him, and seated myself in one of the fireside chairs, fanning myself. I have
since recollected, that I must have looked very saucily. Could I have had any thoughts of the
man, I should have despised myself for it. But what can be said in the case of an aversion
so perfectly sincere?

He hemmed five or six times, as I had done above; and these produced a sentence--that I could
not but see his confusion. This sentence produced two or three more. I believe my aunt had
been his tutoress; for it was his awe, his reverence for so superlative a Lady [I assure you!]
And he hoped--he hoped--three times he hoped, before he told me what--at last it came out,
that I was too generous (generosity, he said, was my character) to despise him for such--for
such--for such--true tokens of his love.

I do indeed see you under some confusion, Sir; and this gives me hope, that although I have
been compelled, as I may call it, to give way to this interview, it may be attended with happier
effects than I had apprehended from it.

He had hemmed himself into more courage. 

Various suggestions have been made with regard to some of these difficulties, but there is among
socialists no general agreement as to the answer of any one of these questions. They continue
to constitute, in the eyes of practical men, a grave obstacle to socialism.

156. DANGERS OF A SOCIALIST BUREAUCRACY.--Governmental power would have to be very highly centralized
if a socialist state were effectively to administer the nation's
economic activities as a unit. It is impossible otherwise, that a man, who has any regard for his own
happiness, would persevere against such declarations as I have made, and think myself obliged
to make, in justice to you, as well as to myself.

He had seen many instances, he told me, and had heard of more, where ladies had seemed as averse,
and yet had been induced, some by motives of compassion, others by persuasion of friends, to
change their minds; and had been very happy afterwards: and he hoped this might be the case here.

I have no notion, Sir, of compliment, in an article of such importance as this: yet I am sorry
to be obliged to speak my mind so plainly as I am going to do.--Know then, that I have invincible
objections, Sir, to your address. I have avowed them with an earnestness that I believe is
without example: and why?--because I believe it is without example that any young creature,
circumstanced as I am, was ever treated as I have been treated on your account.

It is hoped, Madam, that your consent may in time be obtained--that is the hope; and I shall
be a miserable man if it cannot.

Better, Sir, give me leave to say, you were miserable by yourself, than that you should make
two so.

You may have heard, Madam, things to my disadvantage. No man is without enemies. Be pleased
to let me know what you have heard, and I will either own my faults, and amend; or I will convince
you that I am basely bespattered: and once I understand you overheard something that I should
say, that gave you offence: unguardedly, perhaps; but nothing but what shewed my value, and
that I would persist so long as I have hope.

I have indeed heard many things to your disadvantage:--and I was far from being pleased with
what I overheard fall from your lips: but as you were not any thing to me, and never could
be, it was not for me to be concerned about the one or the other.

I am sorry, Madam, to hear this. I am sure you should not tell me of my fault, that I would
be unwilling to correct in myself.

Then, Sir, correct this fault--do not wish to have a young creature compelled in the most material
article of her life, for the sake of motives she despises; and in behalf of a person she cannot
value: one that has, in her own right, sufficient to set her above all your offers, and a spirit
that craves no more than what it has, to make itself easy and happy.

I don't see, Madam, how you would be happy, if I were to discontinue my address: for--

That is nothing to you, Sir, interrupted I: do you but withdraw your pretensions: and if it
will be thought fit to start up another man for my punishment, the blame will not lie at your
door. You will be entitled to my thanks, and most heartily will I thank you.

He paused, and seemed a little at a loss: and I was going to give him still stronger and more
personal instances of my plain-dealing; when in came my uncle Antony.

So, Niece, so!--sitting in state like a queen, giving audience! haughty audience!--Mr. Solmes,
why stand you thus humbly?--Why this distance, man? I hope to see you upon a more intimate
footing before we part.

I arose, as soon as he entered--and approached him with a bend knee: Let me, Sir, reverence
my uncle, whom I have not for so long time seen!--Let me, Sir, bespeak your favour and compassion.

You will have the favour of every body, Niece, when you know how to deserve it.

If ever I deserved it, I deserve it now.--I have been hardly used!--I have made proposals that
ought to be accepted, and such as would not have been asked of me. What have I done, that I
must be banished and confined thus disgracefully? that I must not be allowed to have any free-will
in an article that concerns my present and future happiness?--

Miss Clary, replied my uncle, you have had your will in every thing till now; and this makes
your parents' will sit so heavy upon you.

