To others in Holland, who appeared to be more moderate, the Earl was directed to say, "That
the States were upon a wrong scent: That their minister here mistook every thing that we had
promised: That we would perform all they could reasonably ask from us, in relation to their
barrier and their trade; and that Mons. Buys dealt very unfairly, if he had not told them as
much. But that Britain proceeded, in some respects, upon a new scheme of politics; would no
longer struggle for impossibilities, nor be amused by words: That our people came more and
more to their senses; and that the single dispute now was, whether the Dutch would join with
a faction, against the Queen, or with the nation, for her?"

The court likewise resolved to discourage Prince Eugene from his journey to England, which
he was about this time undertaking, and of which I have spoken before. He was told, "That the
Queen wanted no exhortations to carry on the war; but the project of it should be agreed abroad,
upon which Her Majesty's resolutions might soon be signified: but until she saw what the Emperor
and allies were ready to do, she would neither promise nor engage for any thing." At the same
time Mr. St. John told Hoffman, the Emperor's resident here, "That if the Prince had a mind
to divert himself in London, the ministers would do their part to entertain him, and be sure
to trouble him with no manner of business."

This coldness retarded the Prince's journey for some days; but did not prevent it, although
he had a second message by the Queen's order, with this farther addition, "That his name had
lately been made use of, on many occasions, to create a ferment, and stir up sedition; and
that Her Majesty judged it would be neither safe for him, nor convenient for her, that he should
come over at this time." But all would not do: it was enough that the Queen did not absolutely
forbid him, and the party-confederates, both foreign and domestic, thought his presence would
be highly necessary for their service.

Towards the end of December, the lord privy seal[1] set out for Holland. He was ordered to
stop at The Hague, and, in conjunction with the Earl of Stafford, to declare to the States,
in Her Majesty's name, "Her resolutions to conclude no peace, wherein the allies in general,
and each confederate in particular, might not find their ample security, and their reasonable
satisfaction: That she was ready to insist upon their barrier, and advantages in their trade,
in the manner the States themselves should desire; and to concert with them such a plan of
treaty, as both powers might be under mutual engagements never to recede from: That nothing
could be of greater importance, than for the ministers of Great Britain and Holland to enter
the congress under the strictest ties of confidence, and entirely to concur throughout the
course of these negotiations: To which purpose, it was Her Majesty's pleasure, that their lordships
should adjust with the Dutch ministers, the best manner and method for opening and carrying
on the conferences, and declare themselves instructed to communicate freely their thoughts
and measures to the plenipotentiaries of the States, who, they hoped, had received the same
instructions."

[Footnote 1: Dr. Robinson had already had diplomatic experience as political agent at the Court
of Stockholm, when Marlborough had found him of great service. [T.S.]]

Lastly, the two lords were to signify to the pensionary, and the other ministers, "That Her
Majesty's preparations for the next campaign were carried on with all the dispatch and vigour,
which the present circumstances would allow; and to insist, that the same might be done by
the States; and that both powers should join in pressing the Emperor, and other allies, to
make greater efforts than they had hitherto done; without which the war must languish, and
the terms of peace become every day more disadvantageous."

The two British plenipotentiaries went to Utrecht with very large instructions, and, after
the usual manner, were to make much higher demands from France (at least in behalf of the allies)
than they could have any hope to obtain. The sum of what they had in charge, besides matter
of form, was, to concert with the ministers of the several powers engaged against France, "That
all differences arising among them should be accommodated between themselves, without suffering
the French to interfere: That whatever were proposed to France by a minister of the alliance,
should be backed by the whole confederacy: That a time might be fixed for the conclusion, as
there had been for the commencement, of the treaty." Spain was to be demanded out of the hands
of the Bourbon family, as the most effectual means for preventing the union of that kingdom
with France; and whatever conditions the allies could agree upon for hindering that union,
their lordships were peremptorily to insist on.

As to the interests of each ally in particular, the plenipotentiaries of Britain were to demand
"Strasbourg, the fort of Kehl, with its dependencies, and the town of Brisach, with its territory,
for the Emperor: That France should possess Alsatia, according to the Treaty of Westphalia,
with the right of the prefecture only over the ten imperial cities in that country: That the
fortifications of the said ten cities be put into the condition they were in at the time of
the said treaty, except Landau, which was to be demanded for the Emperor and empire, with liberty
of demolishing the fortifications: That the French King should at a certain time, and at his
own expense, demolish the fortresses of Huningen, New Brisach, and Fort Lewis, never to be rebuilt.

"That the town and fortress of Rhinfels should be demanded for the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel,
until that matter be otherwise settled.

"That the clause relating to religion, in the fourth article of the Treaty of Ryswyck, and
contrary to that of Westphalia, should be annulled, and the state of religion in Germany restored
to the tenor of the Treaty of Westphalia.

"That France should acknowledge the King of Prussia, and give him no disturbance in Neufchatel
and Vallengin.

"That the principality of Orange, and other estates belonging to the late King William, should
be restored, as law should direct.

"That the Duke of Hanover should be acknowledged elector.

"That the King of Portugal should enjoy all the advantages stipulated between him and the allies.

"That the States should have for their barrier Furnes, Fort Knokke, Menin, Ypres, Lille, Tournay,
Condé, Valenciennes, Maubeuge, Douay, Bethune, Aire,[2] St. Venant, and Bouchain, with their
cannon, &c. That the French King should restore all the places belonging to Spain, now or during
this war in his possession, in the Netherlands: That such part of them as should be thought
fit, might be allowed likewise for a barrier to the States: That France should grant the tariff
of one thousand six hundred and sixty-four to the States, and exemption of fifty pence per
tun upon Dutch goods trading to that kingdom. But that these articles in favour of the States
should not be concluded, till the Barrier Treaty were explained to the Queen's satisfaction.

[Footnote: 2 "Bethune Avie" in original: a manifest misprint. "Aire" is the name of a place
near Bethune, which has since been connected with it by a canal. [W.S.J.]]

"That the Duke of Savoy should be put in possession of all taken from him in this war, and
enjoy the places yielded to him by the Emperor, and other allies: That France should likewise
yield to him Exilles, Fenestrelle, Chaumont, the valley of Pragelas, and the land lying between
Piedmont and Mount Genu.

"That the article about demolishing of Dunkirk should be explained."

As to Britain, the plenipotentiaries were to insist, "That Nieuport, Dendermonde, Ghent, and
all places which appear to be a barrier rather against England than France, should either not
be given to the Dutch, or at least in such a manner, as not to hinder the Queen's subjects
free passage to and from the Low Countries.

"That the seventh article of the Barrier Treaty, which empowers the States, in case of an attack,
to put troops at discretion in all the places of the Low Countries, should be so explained
as to be understood only of an attack from France.

"That Britain should trade to the Low Countries with the same privileges as the States themselves.

"That the Most Christian King should acknowledge the succession of Hanover, and immediately
oblige the Pretender to leave France; and that the said King should promise, for himself and
his heirs, never to acknowledge any person for King or Queen of England, otherwise than according
to the settlements now in force.

"That a treaty of commerce should be commenced, as soon as possible, between France and Britain;
and in the mean time, the necessary points relating to it be settled.

"That the Isle of St. Christopher's should be surrendered to the Queen, Hudson's Bay restored,
Placentia and the whole island of Newfoundland yielded to Britain by the Most Christian King;
who was likewise to quit all claim to Nova Scotia and Annapolis Royal.

"That Gibraltar and Minorca should be annexed to the British crown.

"That the Assiento should be granted to Britain for thirty years, with the same advantage as
to France; with an extent of ground on the river of Plata, for keeping and refreshing the negroes.

"That Spain should grant to the subjects of Britain as large privileges as to any other nation
whatsoever; as likewise an exemption of duties, amounting to an advantage of at least fifteen
per cent.

"That satisfaction should be demanded for what should appear to be justly due to Her Majesty,
from the Emperor and the States.

"Lastly, That the plenipotentiaries should consult with those of the Protestant allies, the
most effectual methods for restoring the Protestants of France to their religious and civil
liberties, and for the immediate release of those who are now in the galleys."

What part of these demands were to be insisted on, and what were to be given up, will appear
by the sequel of this negotiation. But there was no difficulty of moment enough to retard the
peace, except a method for preventing the union of France and Spain under one prince, and the
settling the barrier for Holland; which last, as claimed by the States, could, in prudence
and safety, be no more allowed by us than by France.

The States General having appointed Mons. Buys to be one of their plenipotentiaries at Utrecht,
that minister left England a few days after the lord privy seal. In his last conference with
the lords of the council, he absolutely declared, "That his masters had done their utmost,
both by sea and land: That it was unreasonable to expect more: That they had exceeded their
proportion, even beyond Britain; and that as to the Emperor, and other allies, he knew no expedient
left for making them act with more vigour, than to pursue them with pathetical exhortations."

This minister was sent over hither, instructed and empowered by halves. The ferment raised
by the united endeavours of our party leaders, among whom he was a constant fellow-labourer
to the utmost of his skill, had wholly confounded him; and thinking to take the advantage of
negotiating well for Holland at the expense of Britain, he acted but ill for his own country,
and worse for the common cause. However, the Queen's ministers and he parted with the greatest
civility; and Her Majesty's present was double the value of what is usual to the character
he bore.[3]

[Footnote 3: Compare this passage with one in Bolingbroke's "Correspondence" (vol. ii., pp.
108-109): "He [Buys] came over instructed and empowered by halves. The ferment which had been
created by the joint efforts of the faction here, and of that in Holland, confounded him; and
thinking to take this advantage of negotiating well for Holland at the expense of Britain,
he has negotiated ill for both and ill for the common cause. We parted in terms of the greatest
civility, and Her Majesty's present to him was a thousand pounds, which is double the value
of what is ever given here to an envoy-extraordinary." [T.S.]]

As the Queen was determined to alter her measures in making war, so she thought nothing would
so much convince the States of the necessity of a peace, as to have them frequently put in
mind of this resolution, which her ambassador Strafford, then at The Hague, was accordingly
directed to do: and if they should object, of what ill consequence it would be for the enemy
to know Her Majesty designed to lessen her expenses, he might answer, "That the ministers here
were sorry for it; but the Dutch could only blame themselves, for forcing into such a necessity
a princess, to whose friendship they owed the preservation and grandeur of their republic,
and choosing to lean on a broken faction, rather than place their confidence in the Queen."

It was Her Majesty's earnest desire, that there should be a perfect agreement at this treaty
between the ministers of all the allies, than which nothing could be more effectual to make
France comply with their just demands: above all, she directed her plenipotentiaries to enter
into the strictest confidence with those of Holland; and that, after the States had consented
to explain the Barrier Treaty to her reasonable satisfaction, both powers should form between
them a plan of general peace, from which they would not recede, and such as might secure the
quiet of Europe, as well as the particular interests of each confederate.

The Dutch were accordingly pressed, before the congress opened, to come to some temperament
upon that famous treaty; because the ministers here expected it would be soon laid before the
House of Commons, by which the resentment of the nation would probably appear against those
who had been actors and advisers in it: but Mons. Buys, who usually spoke for his colleagues,
was full of opposition, began to expostulate upon the advantages Britain had stipulated with
France; and to insist, that his masters ought to share equally in them all, but especially
the Assiento contract: so that no progress was made in fixing a previous good correspondence
between Britain and the States, which Her Majesty had so earnestly recommended.

Certain regulations having been agreed upon, for avoiding of ceremony and other inconveniencies,
the conferences began at Utrecht, upon the twenty-ninth of January, N.S. one thousand seven
hundred and eleven-twelve, at ten in the morning. The doctor's words had deprived him of all hope,
but even yet he could not bring himself to believe that the end could be so near.

"It will soon be all over, Richard," said the invalid, in a feeble voice.

The attaché sat down by the side of the bed, and after a short struggle
broke into tears, and laid his head on the coverlid.

"Here am I, so strong and well," he sobbed, "and can't do even the smallest thing to help you!
I have never been anything to you but a trouble and a burden."

"Nonsense, Dick!" answered the Consul; "you have been everything to me--you and the business.
But I have something for which to ask your forgiveness before I die."

"My forgiveness?" Uncle Richard thought he was wandering, and looked up.

"Yes," said the Consul, as what was almost a smile passed over the half-stiffened features. "I
have made a fool of you. Your account does not exist. It was only
a joke. Are you angry with me?"

How could he possibly be angry? He laid his face down again on the withered hand, and as he
lay there in his sorrow, with his curly head buried in the pillows, he looked almost like a great
shaggy Newfoundland.

The doctor came into the room.

"I really cannot permit your brother to lie so close to you--it will interfere with your breathing;
and if you don't wish--"

"My brother," said the young Consul, interrupting him in a voice which bore some resemblance to
his business voice. "I wish my brother, Mr. Richard Garman, to remain exactly where he is." He
then added with an effort, "Will you summon my family?"

The doctor left the room, and a few minutes afterwards the invalid drew a long breath, and
said, "Good-bye, Dick! How many happy days we have had together since our childhood! You shall
have all the Burgundy. I have arranged it all.

I should have wished to have left you better off, but--" A movement came over the features,
which feebly reminded Richard of the gesture he used when adjusting his chin in his neckcloth, and
he said slowly and almost noiselessly, "The house is no longer what it has been."

These were the last words he spoke, for before the doctor had got
the family assembled in the sick-chamber, the young Consul was dead;
calm and precise as he had lived.

CHAPTER XXI.

The same morning
Torpander was seen, going along the road which led to Sandsgaard.
Contrary to his usual custom, he had taken a holiday that Monday.
On his head he wore a grey felt hat of the particular shape which
was called in the trade "the mercantile." The hatter had assured him
that it had been originally made for Mr. Morten Garman, but that it
was unfortunately just a trifle too small. The hat, however, exactly
fitted Torpander, and dear as it was, he bought it; and he could not
help noticing the coincidence, that he was that day wearing a hat
which Morten Garman had rejected. He had also bought a coat for the
occasion, not quite new, it is true, but of a most unusual light-brown
hue. The trousers were the worst part of the costume, but the coat
was long enough, in a great measure, to hide them. Torpander could
well enough have bought trousers as well, but he did not wish to trench
too deeply on his savings, before he saw how it fared with him that
day. If all went well she should have everything he possessed, and
if it went badly he would return at once to Sweden, for he could bear
the suspense no longer. He had not, truth to say, great hopes as to
his ultimate success. He had heard a report that Marianne was unwell,
but perhaps she was upset by the disgrace which Martin had brought
upon the family. And since it now appeared by votes in the House of Commons, that the sense of the
nation agreed with what Her Majesty desired, if the Dutch ministers would not be brought to
any moderate terms upon this demand, their lordships were directed to improve and amend the
particular concessions made to Britain by France, and form them into a treaty, for the Queen
was determined never to allow the States any share in the Assiento, Gibraltar, and Port Mahon,
nor could think it reasonable, that they should be upon an equal foot with her in the trade
of Spain, to the conquest whereof they had contributed so little.

Nor was the conduct of the imperial minister at this time less perplexing than that of the
States, both those powers appearing fully bent, either upon breaking off the negotiation, or,
upon forcing from the Queen those advantages she expected by it for her own kingdoms. Her Majesty
therefore thought fit, about the beginning of March, to send Mr. Thomas Harley, a near relation
of the treasurer's, to Utrecht, fully informed of her mind, which he was directed to communicate
to the plenipotentiaries of Britain.

Mr. Harley stopped in his way to Utrecht at The Hague, and there told the pensionary, "That
nothing had happened lately in England but what was long ago foretold him, as well as the other
ministers of the allies. That the proceedings of the House of Commons, particularly about the
Barrier Treaty, must chiefly be ascribed to the manner in which the Queen and the nation had
been treated by Mons. Bothmar, Count Gallas, Buys, and other foreign ministers. That if the
States would yet enter into a strict union with the Queen, give her satisfaction in the said
treaty, and join in concert with her plenipotentiaries at Utrecht, a safe and advantageous
peace might be obtained for the whole alliance; otherwise Her Majesty must save her own country,
and join with such of her allies as would join with her.

"As to the war, that the conduct of the allies, and their opposition to the Queen, by private
intrigues carried on among her own subjects, as well as by open remonstrances, had made the
House of Commons take that matter out of the hands of the ministers.

"Lastly, that in case the present treaty were broken off by the Dutch refusing to comply, Her
Majesty thought it reasonable to insist, that some cautionary places be put into her hands
as pledges, that no other negotiation should be entered into by the States General, without
her participation."

Mr. Harley's instructions to the Queen's plenipotentiaries were, "That they should press those
of France, to open themselves as far as possible, in concerting such a plan of a general peace,
as might give reasonable satisfaction to all the confederates, and such as her Parliament would
approve: That the people of England believed France would consent to such a plan; wherein if
they found themselves deceived, they would be as eager for prosecuting the war as ever."

Their lordships were to declare openly to the Dutch, "That no extremity should make Her Majesty
depart from insisting to have the Assiento for her own subjects, and to keep Gibraltar and
Port Mahon; but if the States would agree with her upon these three heads, she would be content
to reduce the trade of Spain and the West Indies, to the condition it was in under the late
Catholic King Charles II."

The French were farther to be pressed, "That the Pretender should be immediately sent out of
that kingdom; and that the most effectual method should be taken, for preventing the union
of France and Spain under one prince."

About this time Her Majesty's ministers, and those of the allies at Utrecht, delivered in the
several postulata or demands of their masters to the French plenipotentiaries, which having
been since made public, and all of them, except those of Britain, very much varying in the
course of the negotiation, the reader would be but ill entertained with a transcript of them here.

Upon intelligence of the last dauphin's death, the father, son, and grandson, all of that title,[4]
dying within the compass of a year, Mons. Gaultier went to France with letters to the Marquis
de Torcy, to propose Her Majesty's expedient for preventing the union of that kingdom with
Spain; which, as it was the most important article to be settled, in order to secure peace
for Europe, so it was a point that required to be speedily adjusted under the present circumstances
and situation of the Bourbon family, there being only left a child of two years old to stand
between the Duke of Anjou and his succeeding to the crown of France.

[Footnote 4: These princes were the grandfather, the father, and the brother, of Louis XV.,
who was then Duke of Anjou, and supposed to be at the point of death. [N.]]

Her Majesty likewise pressed France by the same dispatches, to send full instructions to their
plenipotentiaries, empowering them to offer to the allies such a plan of peace, as might give
reasonable satisfaction to all her allies.

The Queen's proposal for preventing an union between France and Spain was, "that Philip should
formally renounce the kingdom of France for himself and his posterity; and that this renunciation
should be confirmed by the Cortes or states of Spain, who, without question, would heartily
concur against such an union, by which their country must become a province to France." In
like manner, the French princes of the blood were severally to renounce all title to Spain.

The French raised many difficulties upon several particulars of this expedient; but the Queen
persisted to refuse any plan of peace before this weighty point were settled in the manner
she proposed, which was afterwards submitted to, as in proper place we shall observe. In the
mean time, the negotiation at Utrecht proceeded with a very slow pace; the Dutch interposing
all obstructions they could contrive, refusing to come to any reasonable temper upon the Barrier
Treaty, or to offer a plan, in concert with the Queen, for a general peace. Nothing less would
satisfy them, than the partaking in those advantages we had stipulated for ourselves, and which
did no ways interfere with their trade or security. They still expected some turn in England;
their friends on this side had ventured to assure them, that the Queen could not live many
months, which, indeed, from the bad state of Her Majesty's health, was reasonable to expect.
The British plenipotentiaries daily discovered new endeavours of Holland to treat privately
with France; and, lastly, those among the States, who desired the war should continue, strove
to gain time, until the campaign should open; and by resolving to enter into action with the
first opportunity, render all things desperate, and break up the congress.

This scheme did exactly fall in with Prince Eugene's dispositions, whom the States had chosen
for their general, and of whose conduct, in this conjuncture, the Queen had too much reason
to be jealous; but Her Majesty, who was resolved to do her utmost towards putting a good and
speedy end to this war, having placed the Duke of Ormonde at the head of her forces in Flanders,
whither he was now arrived, directed him to keep all the troops in British pay, whether subjects
or foreigners, immediately under his own command; and to be cautious, for a while, in engaging
in any action of importance, unless upon a very apparent advantage. At the same time the Queen
determined to make one thorough trial of the disposition of the States, by allowing them the
utmost concessions that could any way suit either with her safety or honour. She therefore
directed her ministers at Utrecht, to tell the Dutch, "That, in order to shew how desirous
she was to live in perfect amity with that republic, she would resign up the fifteen per cent.,
advantage upon English goods sent to the Spanish dominions, which the French King had offered
her by a power from his grandson,[5] and be content to reduce that trade to the state in which
it was under the late King of Spain. The fact was, she did not yet quite understand her new life;
everything had turned out so different to what she had expected.

When Madeleine and her friend Per had met for the last time, but few words had passed between
them, but when he went down the hill towards Bratvold, she stood gazing after him till he
was out of sight. She had then made a vow to keep true to him, no matter what her relations might
say, and she knew well enough they would all be against her; but as she looked over the sea, she felt
herself so strong and so determined, that she could not doubt her courage and her constancy to
her first love.

But now, as it so turned out, her constancy was never called in question. She felt certain that
a rumour of her connection with Per must have reached Sandsgaard, for she well knew that there
were stories enough about her free and unrestrained life at Bratvold, and so at first she always
dreaded the slightest allusion to it. She had at the same time quite made up her mind to confess
openly how matters stood, and to say plainly that although he was nothing but a simple peasant
and fisherman, she, Madeleine Garman, would be true to him. But in
the course of conversation she could not discover even the most distant
hint at her adventure; it did not even appear that anything really
was known about it; her past life was, in fact, never mentioned in
any way, and it seemed to be taken for granted that she could never
have conducted herself otherwise than naturally became a Miss Garman. Her Majesty assured
them in plain terms, that her own future measures, and the conduct of her plenipotentiaries,
should be wholly governed by their behaviour in these points; and that her offers were only
conditional, in case of their compliance with what she desired."

[Footnote 5: Philip V., King of Spain. [W. S, J.]]

But all these proofs of the Queen's kindness and sincerity could not avail. The Dutch ministers
pleaded, they had no power to concert the plan of general peace with those of Britain: however,
they assured the latter, that the Assiento was the only difficulty which stuck with their masters.
Whereupon, at their desire, a contract for that traffic was twice read to them; after which
they appeared very well satisfied, and said they would go to The Hague for further instructions.
Thither they went, and, after a week's absence, returned the same answer, "That they had no
power to settle a scheme of peace; but could only discourse of it, when the difficulties of
the Barrier Treaty were over." And Mons. Buys took a journey to Amsterdam, on purpose to stir
up that city, where he was pensionary, against yielding the Assiento to Britain; but was unsuccessful
in his negotiation; the point being yielded up there, and in most other towns in Holland.

It will have an odd sound in history, and appear hardly credible, that in several petty republics
of single towns, which make up the States General, it should be formally debated, whether the
Queen of Great Britain, who preserved the commonwealth at the charge of so many millions, should
be suffered to enjoy, after a peace, the liberty granted her by Spain of selling African slaves
in the Spanish dominions of America! But there was a prevailing faction at The Hague, violently
bent against any peace, where the Queen must act that part which they had intended for themselves.
These politicians, who held constant correspondence with their old dejected friends in England,
were daily fed with the vain hopes of the Queen's death, or the party's restoration. They likewise
endeavoured to spin out the time, till Prince Eugene's activity had pushed on some great event,
which might govern or perplex the conditions of peace. The spare pieces of timber that were to
be put under her, and the wedges which were to be driven in to raise her forward, were ready to
hand, as were the jacks and levers. Everything, in fact, down to the long-handled mauls was in
its place.


But neither was this the worst; for the Queen received undoubted intelligence from Utrecht,
that the Dutch were again attempting a separate correspondence with France. And by letters,
intercepted here, from Vienna, it was found, that the imperial court, whose ministers were
in the utmost confidence with those of Holland, expressed the most furious rage against Her
Majesty, for the steps she had taken to advance a peace.

