

DUTY.

Mary Stansfield and Grace Willerly were sitting together, about three weeks after the above
conversation, in an arbour in the garden attached to Lady Willerly's house.  Miss Stansfield
had come to spend a day or two by special invitation, by way of getting a little change, which
she much needed; her aunt having spared her without a murmur, and having accepted the services
of a former domestic in her place.

"How very kind of your aunt to spare you!" said Grace to her friend; "I hardly expected it,
knowing how much she depends upon you."

"Oh yes!" was the reply: "you cannot tell, dear Grace, what a wonderful change has come over
my dear aunt.  And it is all owing, under God, to the loving faithfulness of our kind friend
Colonel Dawson.  I scarcely ever get a harsh word or a hard look now; and when I do, my aunt
at once calls me to her, and asks me to forgive her.  Oh, is it not wonderful? I am sure I
blush with shame to think how little I deserve it."

"Yes, it is very wonderful, dear Mary.  Certainly our new neighbour is a most earnest and useful
man; and he has shown his discernment, too, in getting hold of yourself to work for him in
Bridgepath.  But I am afraid you will find it very up-hill work; you'll want the strength of
a horse, the patience of Job, and the zeal of an apostle in such a place as that."

"Certainly, I shall want the grace of an apostle," said the other quietly; "but the work is
very delightful, and is more than repaying me already for any little trouble or self-denial
it may cost me."

"It is very good of you to say so, Mary; I am afraid the work wouldn't suit me.  I don't mind
making sacrifices--indeed, I think I can truly say it is one of my chief pleasures to make
them; but there must be something very depressing in the jog-trot sort of work you are called
on to do.  I don't mind anything, so long as it has a little bit of dash in it; but I am afraid
I should soon grow weary of a regular grind like yours."

"Oh, but you are quite mistaken about my work at Bridgepath," said the other, laughing.  "There
is nothing dull or monotonous about it; and it is such a happiness to see the light of God's
truth beginning to dawn on dark and troubled hearts.  And there is one particularly interesting
family--I mean John Price's.  You have heard, I dare say, that he was steward to the squire,
and that he lost almost everything by his poor master's extravagance.  Poor man, he is bed-ridden
now, and I fear had little comfort even from his Bible, for he seemed to have learned little
from it but patience.  But, oh!  How he has brightened up, and his wife and daughter, too,
now that they have been led to see that it is their privilege to work and suffer from salvation
instead of for salvation."

"I don't understand you," interrupted Miss Willerly.

"Don't you?  Oh, it makes all the difference.  Poor John Price has been reading his Bible,
and bearing his troubles patiently, in the hope that at the end he may be accepted and saved
through his Saviour's merits. That is what I mean by working for salvation."

"And what else, dear Mary, would you have him do?"

"O Grace!  This is poor work indeed, working in view of a merely possible salvation.  No! 
What he has learned now is to see that his Saviour, in whom he humbly and truly believes, has
given him a present salvation; so that he, and his wife and daughter too, can now say, `We
love him, because he first loved us.'  And so they work and suffer cheerfully, and even thankfully,
from love to that Saviour who has already received them as his own.  This is what I mean by
working from salvation.  Surely we shall work more heartily for one of whom we know that he
has saved us, than for one of whom we know only that he has saved others, and may perhaps save
us also in the end."

"I see what you mean, dear Mary, but I never saw it so before.  Such a view of God's love to
us personally must take the selfishness out of our good works, because what we do will be done
just simply from love to Christ.  It is a beautiful way of looking at God's dealings with us."

"Yes, Grace; and as true and scriptural as it is beautiful.  It is just what God sees that
we need, and furnishes us with the most constraining motive to serve him, and to deny self
in his service."

"I see it," said Miss Willerly sadly and thoughtfully, after a pause. "I very much fear, dear
Mary, that I have been greatly deceiving myself. I have been just simply building up a monument
to my own honour and glory out of my heap of little daily crosses."

"Nay, dear Grace, you are dealing too severely with yourself."

"No, I think not.  At any rate, I am sadly aware that not the love of Christ, but the love
of human applause, has been the constraining motive in my acts of self-denial.  I have made
such a parade of my willingness to thwart my own will that I might please others, so that while
I should have been startled to see a full-grown trumpeter at my side proclaiming my unselfishness,
I have all the while been keeping in my service a little dwarf page, who has been sounding
out my praises on his shrill whistle."

"You judge yourself hardly, dear Grace; and yet, no doubt, self does enter largely even into
our unselfishness.  I am sure I have felt it, oh, how deeply!  And specially just lately, since
I have undertaken this work at Bridgepath."

"You, dear Mary!"

"Yes, indeed.  And I see now how wisely our heavenly Father ordered his discipline in my case.
There was indeed a `needs-be' in my dear aunt's former harshness and irritability to me; but
for that, and for her disparaging remarks on my conduct, I might have been more self-seeking
than I am.  But the discipline has been changed now, and I trust that the chastisement has
not been wholly in vain.  What we all want, I am sure, if we are to be true workers for God,
is to lift our eyes from self, and keep them steadily fixed on Him who has done so much for us."

"I am sure you are right," said the other.  "I know I wish to do right, and I feel a pleasure
in crossing my own inclination when it will gratify others; but then my inmost look has been
to the world and its approbation.  `What will people say?  What will people think?' or, at
any rate, `What will good people say and think?' this has been the prominent thought in my
heart, I fear."

"Well, dear Grace, I suppose this is so, more or less, with us all. What we want, I think,
and comparatively seldom find in these showy and surface days, is a high sense of duty, so
that we just act as duty calls, let the world, or good people even, judge of us or speak of
us as they please."

"And yet, dear Mary, I think I see a little crevice through which self may creep in even there.
I have met some of your `duty' people who have flung themselves so violently against the prejudices
of society, or, at any rate, of good people, crying out all the time, `Duty, duty!  It don't
matter to us what the world thinks,' that they have given great offence where they might have
avoided giving any, and have set up people's backs against what is good and true."

"I dare say you have met such, dear Grace, and I think you may be talking to one of the class
now," said Miss Stansfield, laughing; "at least, my character and principles would naturally
lead me in that direction, for, of course, we are all disposed to carry out our own views to
an extreme, if we do not let common sense, enlightened by grace, preserve a proper balance.
But, spite of this, I still feel that a high sense of duty in those who love our Saviour is
the surest preservative against being carried away by a subtle selfishness, and is the making
of the finest and most truly self-denying characters.  If I am manifestly in the path of duty,
what matters it what is said of me, or who says it?  I may then go forward, not, indeed, arrogantly
or defiantly--that would be unlike the great Master--but yet firmly and confidently, and God
will set me right with the world and with his people in his own good time."

"Ah!  I believe you are right," said her friend, with a sigh.  "I wish there were more of such
true unselfishness amongst us; I wish I were such a character myself."

"And so you are, dear Grace, in the main.  No one can possibly doubt your genuineness and sincerity.
You have only just to step up on to the higher platform, and, as your heart's gaze becomes
more fixed on a Saviour known and loved, you will cease to think about how your self- denial
looks in the eyes of others, and will feel the cross which you carry after Christ in the path
of duty to be easy and his burden light."

"I shall not forget our conversation on this subject," said Miss Willerly with tears in her
eyes.  "I always thought that I hated selfishness, but now I see that I have been blinded to
my own.  I suppose it is very difficult for us to see it in ourselves as it really is, especially
in these days when there are so many attractive forms of self-denial.  It occurred to me the
other day what an odd thing it would be to see how a number of utterly selfish people would
get on if thrown together for some weeks, with not a single unselfish person amongst them,
and unable to get rid of one another's company.  I feel sure the result would teach an admirable
lesson on the misery of a thoroughly selfish disposition."

"I think so too, Grace," said her companion, much amused.  "What do you say to putting a story
or allegory together on the subject."

"Capital!" cried Miss Willerly; "it will be something quite in my line I will set about it
at once.  I shall be able to give myself some very seasonable raps on the knuckles as I go
on, and perhaps I may be of use to some of my acquaintance, who might be induced to look through
my performance in a friendly way."

"You must let me be the first to see it," said her friend.

"Oh, certainly; and you must give me your free and candid criticisms."

"Yes, I will do so; and I don't doubt I shall find profit in the reading of it, and a little
bit of myself in more than one of your characters."

A fortnight after this conversation Miss Stansfield received from her friend the promised story,
which we give in the following chapter.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

THE SELFISH ISLANDS.

A certain Eastern despot, whose attention had been painfully drawn to the odious character
of selfishness, by finding it exhibited in a very marked manner towards himself by some who
had, in looking after their own interests, ventured to thwart the royal will, was resolved
to get rid of all the most selfish people out of his capital.  To that end he made proclamation
that on a certain day he would give a grand banquet to all the unselfish people in the metropolis,
nothing being needed for admittance to the feast but the personal application of any one laying
claim to unselfishness to the lord chancellor for a ticket.

The king took this course under the firm conviction that all the most selfish people, being
utterly blinded by self-esteem to their own failing, would be the very persons most ready to
claim admittance to the banquet; and in this expectation he was not disappointed.  But he was
a little staggered to find that about a thousand persons, of both sexes and of nearly all ages,
applied at the office for tickets of admission and many of them such as had not made their
appearance in public for many long years past.  Thus, when the feast-day came, bed-ridden men
and women arrived at the palace dressed out in silks and satins; gouty men hobbled in without
their crutches; and multitudes who had long been incapacitated from doing anything but try
the patience of their friends and indulge their own whims, made no difficulty of appearing
among the guests.  And it was strange, too, to see at the king's table delicate ladies and
chronic invalids, who were never met with at places of worship or benevolent meetings, because
the cold or the heat, or their nerves or their lungs made it a duty for them to be keepers
at home. There were also present about two hundred spoilt children, whose mothers considered
them to be "dear unselfish little darlings," and about an equal number of young ladies and
young gentlemen, whose chief delight had consisted in spending their fathers' money, and studying
their own sweet persons in the looking-glass.

Of course, the company behaved with due decorum at the banquet, especially as the king did
them the honour of sitting down to table with them, the only exception being on the part of
the spoilt children, whom not even the presence of royalty itself could restrain from personal
encounters over the more attractive-looking dishes.

The banquet over, the king rose and thus addressed his astonished guests:--

"I have ascertained from my lord chancellor, whose secretary took down the names and addresses
of you all when you applied for your tickets, that he has made careful inquiry into your several
characters, and finds that you all belong to a class of persons who greatly trouble our city.
You have accepted my invitation professedly as unselfish people, but your estimate of yourselves
is the very reverse of that which is held by those who know you best.  I have therefore resolved,
for the good of the community generally, to transport the whole of you, for a period of six
months, to the uninhabited island of Comoro, situate in the midst of the great lake, where
you will find ample means for living in health, peace, and comfort, provided you are all and
each willing to lay aside your selfishness, and to find your happiness in living for the good
of others.  And I trust that at the end of the six months, when steamers shall call for you
at Comoro, you may all be spared to return to your homes improved in character, more useful
members of society, and more fitted to contribute to the real prosperity of this kingdom."

Without waiting for a reply, which was not indeed attempted by any of the guests--for they
remained for some moments speechless with amazement--the king retired from the banqueting hall;
and the lord chancellor, motioning with his hand for attention, proceeded to state that each
of the guests would be expected to be at the station on a day and at an hour specified on a
ticket which each would receive; and that every one would be allowed to take with him or her
a reasonable but limited amount of personal luggage, but no furniture or heavy and bulky articles.
Steamers would be in readiness, at the Lakeside Terminus, to convey the passengers and their
goods to the island; and, as no one would be permitted to decline the journey--for all knew
that the king's will was law--the guests would best consult their own interests and comfort
by preparing for the removal with as little delay as possible.

Having made this statement, the lord chancellor withdrew, leaving the company staring one at
another in blank dismay.  What was to be done? Nothing but to make the best of it; as for resistance,
all knew that it would be useless, and remonstrance equally so.  Even the infirm and sickly
could hope for no exemption; for as their maladies had not hindered their attendance at the
banquet, these could not be now admitted as a plea for excusing them from the removal.  Many,
indeed, of the young people were highly delighted with the prospect before them, especially
the children, who were anxious to be off for Comoro there and then.  As for their elders, they
retired from the palace with varied feelings; some indignant, some conscience-stricken, and
most prepared to lay the blame on some one or more of their neighbours.  Indeed, two old gentlemen,
who had been lodgers on different floors in the same house for years, but, in consequence of
an old quarrel, had never spoken to one another for the greater part of that time, now blocked
up one of the exits from the palace, as they stood face to face, furiously charging each other
with being the guilty cause of the terrible calamity which had now fallen on themselves and
on so many of their fellow-citizens.

And now the day of departure had arrived, and the trains for the lake were duly filled with
passengers; not, however, till many heartrending scenes had occurred in connection with the
luggage.  Two young ladies, bosom friends, having hired a van to convey their joint wardrobe
and other ornamental effects to the station, were informed, to their tearful despair, that
only about one-tenth of the goods could be conveyed to the island.  Similarly, three or four
fast young men entered the train in a state of desperation bordering on collapse, because the
officials had peremptorily turned back a stud of hunters and half-a-dozen sporting dogs.  But
the most exciting scene of all occurred in the case of an old maiden lady, who, having brought
a cart-load of personal necessaries and comforts, which were positively essential to her continued
existence, and having been firmly refused the transmission of the greater part of them, declared
with the utmost positiveness that the lord chancellor had himself expressly informed all the
guests at the banquet that each was at liberty to take an unlimited quantity of goods; nor
could any explanation convince her of her mistake.  Let them say what they pleased, she had
heard the word unlimited with her own ears: and hearing was believing.  The last case which
caused any serious difficulty, and which really excited the pity of the porters, was that of
an elderly gentleman unfortunate enough to be troubled with a liver, who changed various colours
when informed that he must leave behind him an iron-bound box containing some four or five
hundredweight of patent and other medicines.

At length, all the trains having reached the Lakeside Terminus, the entire party of temporary
exiles were duly and speedily conveyed in steamers to the island of Comoro, where they were
put on shore with their goods.

The climate of the island was delightful, and subject to but few variations, so that nothing
was to be feared by the new-comers from inclemency of weather. But for Garcia's remarkable mind
the empirical methods of the old school were unsatisfactory. He desired definite knowledge of the
voice. A clear idea seems to have been in his mind that, with full understanding of the vocal
mechanism and of its correct mode of action, voices would be more
readily and surely trained.

How strongly this idea had possession of Garcia is shown by the fact that he began the study of
the vocal action in 1832, and that he invented the laryngoscope only in 1855.

It must not be understood that Garcia was the first teacher to attempt
to formulate a systematic scheme of instruction in singing.

In the works of Mannstein (1834) and of Marx (1823) an ambitious forward movement on the part
of many prominent teachers is strongly indicated. But Garcia was the first teacher to apply scientific
principles in dealing with the specific problem of tone-production. He conceived the idea that
a scientific knowledge of the workings of the vocal organs might be made the basis of a practical
system or method of instruction in singing. This idea of Garcia has been the basic principle
of all practical methods, ever since the publication of the results of his first laryngoscopic
investigations in 1855.

Before attempting to suggest a new means of dealing with the problem of vocal management, it is
well to ascertain how this problem is treated in modern methods of instruction. It would not be
easy to overstate the importance assigned to the matter of tone-production in all modern systems
of Voice Culture. The scientific study of the voice has dealt exclusively with this subject.
A new science has resulted, commonly called "Vocal Science." This science is generally accepted
as the foundation of all instruction in singing.

All modern methods are to some extent based on Vocal Science.

To arrive at an understanding of modern methods, the two directions in which vocal theorists
have approached the scientific study of the voice must be borne in mind: First, by an investigation
of the anatomy of the vocal organs, and of the laws of acoustics and mechanics in accordance
with which they operate. Second, by an analysis of the traditional precepts of the old Italian
school in the light of this scientific knowledge.

As the present work demands a review of modern methods from the practical
side only, it is not necessary to include a description of the vocal
organs.

It will be sufficient to describe briefly the manner in which scientific investigators of the
voice treat the subject of the vocal organs.

The vocal mechanism consists of three portions,--the breathing apparatus, the larynx with its
appendages, and the resonance cavities. Vocal scientists apply their efforts to finding out the
correct mode of action of each portion of the mechanism, and to formulating
rules and exercises by which these correct actions can be acquired
and combined for the production of perfect tones.

The analysis of the traditional precepts also conforms to this general plan; each precept
is referred to that portion of the vocal apparatus to which it seems best to apply. The outline
of the principles of modern methods contained in the following chapters follows this general
scheme.

It must be understood at the start that on most of the doctrines included in Vocal Science there
is no unanimity of opinion among either theorists or teachers. Far from this being the case,
practically all the principles of Vocal Science are the subjects of controversy.

CHAPTER II

BREATHING AND BREATH-CONTROL

It is generally considered that, as the breath is the foundation of
singing, the manner of breathing is of vital importance to the singer.
This subject has therefore received a vast amount of attention from
vocal scientists, and the muscular actions of breathing have been
exhaustively studied.

Several sets of rules for inspiration and expiration
are put forth by different authorities. But there is no occasion for
going into a detailed discussion of the different modes of breathing
advocated by the various schools, or of the theoretical arguments
which each advances. It is sufficient to say that the modes of breathing
most in vogue are five in number,--deep abdominal, lateral or costal,
fixed high chest, clavicular, and diaphragmatic-abdominal. However,
on experimenting with these five systems of breathing, it is found
that the number may be reduced to two; of these the others are but
slight modifications. Before the old gentleman
could frame an answer to this second question, the judge, having paused to give a few moments
for reply, exclaimed, "Officer, dismiss this complainant;" and the old man was forthwith removed
from the tent in a state of boiling indignation.

"And now, madam," continued the commissioner, addressing a middle-aged lady of dignified mien
and commanding stature, "may I ask what is your complaint?"

"I complain, sir," replied the lady sternly, "of general neglect and ill-treatment."

"Excuse me, madam," was the judge's reply, "but I can see no evidence of this in your personal
appearance.  So far from it, that, having met you not unfrequently in the streets of our city,
I am constrained to congratulate you on the manifest improvement in health which you have gained
from a month's residence in this delightful climate.--Officer, conduct this lady with all due
ceremony to the outside of our court."

"And you, sir," speaking to a gentleman of very severe countenance, who had been used at home
to "show his slaves how choleric he was, and make his bondmen tremble,"--"let me hear what
charge you have to allege."

"Charge, Mr Commissioner!  Charge enough, I'm sure!  Why, I can't get any one to mind a word
that I say."

"Then, I am sure, sir, the fault must be wholly or for the most part your own.--Officer, remove
him."

"Has no one anything more definite to complain of?" he again asked, looking round the assembly,
which by this time had begun to thin, as it became obvious to all present that no attention
would be given to mere vague grumblings.

"I'm sure it's very hard," sighed a knot of young ladies, who had listened from the outside
to what had been going on, and were afraid to speak out more plainly.  "We shall be moped to
death if we're kept here any longer," muttered one or two fast young men, shrugging their shoulders.
But to these remarks the commissioner turned a deaf ear; and no one coming forward to lodge
any distinct charge against another, the court broke up, and the commissioner proceeded to
make a tour of inspection among the islanders.

He found, as he had indeed expected to find, that the necessity for exertion, and the peculiarity
of the circumstances in which they were now placed, had already got rid of a good deal of the
selfishness which had only formed a sort of crust over the characters of many who, in the main,
were not without kind and generous feelings; so that the looking after the due supply of provisions,
and the cooking of them and serving them to the different families, had been cheerfully undertaken
by a duly organised body of young and middle-aged workers of both sexes,--the result of which
was, not only an improvement in character in the workers themselves, but also a drawing forth
of expressions of gratitude from some who formerly took all attentions as a right, but now
had been made to feel their dependence on their fellows.  And it was pleasant to see how cordially
working men and women were united in striving for the good of the community in conjunction
with those who had hitherto occupied a higher social position than themselves.

Some, indeed, of the lower orders, whose tastes had been of an utterly low and degraded cast,
had been summarily ejected from the island after they had more than once endangered the lives
and stores of the islanders in their brutal drunken sprees.  They had talked big, indeed, and
made at first a show of resistance; but the general body of the exiles had authorised a powerful
force of young and middle-aged men to take them into custody, and convey them on a raft, constructed
for the purpose, to an island some ten miles distant.  Here the rioters were left with a sufficient
supply of provisions; a warning being given them that, should they attempt to return to Comoro,
they would be put in irons, and kept in custody till they could be brought up before the commissioner.
The island being thus happily rid of this disturbing element, there was, at any rate, outward
peace among the inhabitants of Comoro, though, of course, there was yet abundance of discontent
and bitterness beneath the surface in the hearts of many.

As the commissioner was making his way to the shore preparatory to his return to the mainland,
he passed a tent from which there issued such deep-fetched sighs that, having obtained permission
to enter, he inquired of the inmate the cause of so much trouble.

"Ah, sir!" replied the poor sufferer, who was a man some sixty years of age, with grey hair,
and a countenance whose expression was one of mingled shrewdness, discontent, and ill-temper,
"our sovereign little knows the cruelty he has been guilty of in sending me all alone to a
place like this."

"How alone, my friend?" asked the other; "you have plenty of companions within reach."

"Why, sir," was the poor man's reply, "I have been torn from the best and most loving of wives--I
who am so entirely dependent on her for my happiness--I who love her so tenderly;--alas!  Wretched
man that I am, what shall I do?"

"Do you know this gentleman?" said the commissioner, turning to his secretary, who had accompanied
him into the tent.

"I know him well, your excellency," was the reply; "and a more selfish man does not exist. Early
in 1793 Mrs. Graham heard, from a worthy clergyman at Greenock, who, at her request, paid attention
to her son, that he had been very ill of a fever, and subsequently subject to epileptic fits.
In one of these he had fallen from the mast-head, and was rendered unfit for service for many months.
The gentleman to whom he was apprenticed, permitted him to leave. In these circumstances Mrs.
Graham addressed to him the following letter:

"MY LONG-LOST BUT STILL DEAR SON--If this ever reach you, hearken
to the voice of your mother, your only parent, and to the voice of
God by her.

O, my son, you have had a long race in the service of Satan; he has kept you in bondage and
made you his drudge.  Think over the past with contrition, and be up and
joining in some useful work for the good of others; and when you return home, treat your injured,
long-suffering, and admirable wife as a human being, a lady, a companion, a friend, an equal,
and not, as you have hitherto done, like a slave or a brute beast."

There was no reply, and the commissioner hastened to the shore.  He was about to step into
the boat that was to convey him to the steamer, when a young man of dandified appearance and
affected manner requested to know whether he could have one moment's private interview with
the commissioner before his departure.

"Well, sir," said the other, somewhat impatiently, "you must be brief, for I am anxious to
lose no time, as business matters at home are pressing."

"Sir," said the young man, dropping, at the same time, his affected drawl, "my case is a hard
one, and I would ask if you could not grant me a passage home in the vessel by which you are
returning."

"On what grounds?" asked the commissioner.

"Why, sir, I have an old mother and a sister, both in infirm health, who can hardly get on
without me; and it is only just that I should be allowed to return, as my mother, who is a
widow, has no other son."

"Do you know this young man?" inquired the commissioner, turning to his secretary.

"Far too well, your excellency; he is the clog of his home, the laughing-stock of his companions
behind his back, and is despised by all wise and sensible people.  He has had situation after
situation offered him, in which he could have earned an honest and respectable livelihood,
but he has declined one after another as not to his taste.  He is far too much of a gentleman,
in his own estimation, to enter upon any work that will involve any steady exertion; but he
does not scruple to sponge upon his poor mother, to whose support he contributes nothing, and
who has barely enough to meet her own needs, while he borrows--that is, appropriates--the savings
of his delicate sister, who, though in feeble health, has undertaken tuition, because this
brother of hers is too fine a gentleman to live in anything but idleness, and spends those
hard- earned savings of hers as pocket-money on his own elegant pleasures and follies." 

Whatever pressure is exerted by the expiratory muscles must be almost counterbalanced by the
opposed action of the muscles of inspiration. The more powerful the blast, the greater must
be the exertion by which it is controlled.