 Each one down to the foot in white,  Fill'd
to the brim with grace, Walking among the saints in light, With glad and joyful face. 71. 72.
A crown to them we then shall be, A glory and a joy; And that before the Lord, when he The
world comes to destroy. 73. 74. 75. The strings of music here are tun'd For heavenly harmony,
And every spirit here perfum'd With perfect sanctity. 76. Here runs the crystal streams of
life, Quite through all our veins. And here by love we do unite With glory's golden chains.
77. Now that which sweet'neth all will be The lasting of this state; This heightens all we
hear or see To a transcendant rate. 78. For should the saints enjoy all this But for a certain
time, O, how would they their mark then miss, And at this thing repine? 79. Yea, 'tis not possible
that they Who then shall dwell on high, Should be content, unless they may Dwell there eternally.
80. A thought of parting with this place Would bitter all their sweet, And darkness put upon
the face Of all they there do meet. 81. But far from this the saints shall be, Their portion
is the Lord, Whose face for ever they shall see, As saith the holy word. 82. And that with
everlasting peace, Joy, and felicity, From this time forth they shall increase Unto eternity.

OF HELL, AND THE ESTATE  OF THOSE THAT PERISH.

1. Thus, having show'd you what I see Of heaven, I now will tell You also, after search, what
be The damned wights of hell. 2. And O, that they who read my lines Would ponder soberly, And
lay to heart such things betimes As touch eternity. 3. The sleepy sinner little thinks What
sorrows will abound Within him, when upon the brinks Of Tophet he is found. 4. Hell is beyond
all though a state So doubtful[10] and forlorn, So fearful, that none can relate The pangs
that there are born. 5. God will exclude them utterly From his most blessed face, And them
involve in misery, In shame, and in disgrace. 6. God is the fountain of all bliss, Of life,
of light, and peace; They then must needs be comfortless Who are depriv'd of these. 7. Instead
of life, a living death Will there in all be found. Dyings will be in every breath, Thus sorrow
will abound. 8. No light, but darkness here doth dwell; No peace, but horror strange: The fearful
damning wights[11] of hell In all will make this change. 9. To many things the damned's woe
Is liked in the word, And that because no one can show The vengeance of the Lord. 10. Unto
a dreadful burning lake, All on a fiery flame, Hell is compared, for to make All understand
the same. 11. A burning lake, a furnace hot, A burning oven, too, Must be the portion, share,
and lot, Of those which evil sow. 12. This plainly shows the burning heat With which it will
oppress All hearts, and will like burnings eat Their souls with sore distress. 13. This burning
lake, it is God's wrath Incensed by the sin Of those who do reject his path, And wicked ways
walk in. 14. Which wrath will so perplex all parts Of body and of soul, As if up to the very
hearts In burnings they did roll. 15. Again, to show the stinking state Of this so sad a case,
Like burning brimstone God doth make The hidings of his face. 16. And truly as the steam, and
smoke, And flames of brimstone smell, To blind the eyes, and stomach choke, So are the pangs
of hell. 17. To see a sea of brimstone burn, Who would it not affright? But they whom God to
hell doth turn Are in most woful plight. 18. This burning cannot quenched be, No, not with
tears of blood; No mournful groans in misery Will here do any good. 19. O damned men! this
is your fate, The day of grace is done, Repentance now doth come too late, Mercy is fled and
gone. 20. Your groans and cries they sooner should Have sounded in mine ears, If grace you
would have had, or would Have me regard your tears. 21. Me you offended with your sin, Instructions
you did slight, Your sins against my law hath been, Justice shall have his right. 22. I gave
my Son to do you good, I gave you space and time With him to close, which you withstood, And
did with hell combine. 23. Justice against you now is set, Which you cannot appease; Eternal
justice doth you let From either life or ease. 24. Thus he that to this place doth come May
groan, and sigh, and weep; But sin hath made that place his home, And there it will him keep.
25. Wherefore, hell in another place Is call'd a prison too, And all to show the evil case
Of all sin doth undo. 26. Which prison, with its locks and bars Of God's lasting decree, Will
hold them fast; O how this mars All thought of being free! 27. Out at these brazen bars they
may The saints in glory see; But this will not their grief allay, But to them torment be. 28.
Thus they in this infernal cave Will now be holden fast From heavenly freedom, though they
crave, Of it they may not taste. 29. The chains that darkness on them hangs Still ratt'ling
in their ears, Creates within them heavy pangs, And still augments their fears. 30. Thus hopeless
of all remedy, They dyingly do sink Into the jaws of misery, And seas of sorrow drink. 31.
For being cop'd[12] on every side With helplessness and grief, Headlong into despair they slide
Bereft of all relief. 32. Therefore this hell is called a pit, Prepared for those that die
The second death, a term most fit To show their misery. 33. A pit that's bottomless is this,
A gulf of grief and woe, A dungeon which they cannot miss, That will themselves undo. 34. Thus
without stay they always sink, Thus fainting still they fail, Despair they up like water drink,
These prisoners have no bail. 35. Here meets them now that worm that gnaws, And plucks their
bowels out, The pit, too, on them shuts her jaws; This dreadful is, no doubt. 36. This ghastly
worm is guilt for sin, Which on the conscience feeds, With vipers' teeth, both sharp and keen,
Whereat it sorely bleeds. 37. This worm is fed by memory, Which strictly brings to mind, All
things done in prosperity, As we in Scripture find. 38. No word, nor thought, nor act they
did, But now is set in sight, Not one of them can now be hid, Memory gives them light. 39.
On which the understanding still Will judge, and sentence pass, This kills the mind, and wounds
the will, Alas, alas, alas! 40. O, conscience is the slaughter shop, There hangs the axe and
knife, 'Tis there the worm makes all things hot, And wearies out the life. 41. Here, then,
is execution done On body and on soul; For conscience will be brib'd of none, But gives to
all their dole. 42. This worm, 'tis said, shall never die, But in the belly be Of all that
in the flames shall lie, O dreadful sight to see! 43. This worm now needs must in them live,
For sin will still be there, And guilt, for God will not forgive, Nor Christ their burden bear.
44. But take from them all help and stay, And leave them to despair, Which feeds upon them
night and day, This is the damned's share. 45. Now will confusion so possess These monuments
of ire, And so confound them with distress, And trouble their desire. 46. That what to think,
or what to do, Or where to lay their head, They know not; 'tis the damned's woe To live, and
yet be dead. 47. These cast-aways would fain have life, But know, they never shall, They would
forget their dreadful plight, But that sticks fast'st of all. 48. God, Christ, and heaven,
they know are best, Yet dare not on them think, The saints they know in joys do rest, While
they their tears do drink. 49. They cry alas, but all in vain, They stick fast in the mire,
They would be rid of present pain, Yet set themselves on fire. 50. Darkness is their perplexity,
Yet do they hate the light, They always see their misery, Yet are themselves all night. 51.
They are all dead, yet live they do, Yet neither live nor die. They die to weal, and live to
woe, This is their misery. 52. Amidst all this so great a scare That here I do relate, Another
falleth to their share In this their sad estate. 53. The legions of infernal fiends Then with
them needs must be, A just reward for all their pains, This they shall feel and see. 54. With
yellings, howlings, shrieks, and cries, And other doleful noise, With trembling hearts and
failing eyes, These are their hellish joys. 55. These angels black they would obey, And serve
with greedy mind, And take delight to go astray, That pleasure they might find. 56. Which pleasure
now like poison turns Their joy to heaviness; Yea, like the gall of asps it burns, And doth
them sore oppress 57. Now is the joy they lived in All turned to brinish tears, And resolute
attempts to sin Turn'd into hellish fears. 58. The floods run trickling down their face, Their
hearts do prick and ache, While they lament their woful case, Their loins totter and shake.
59. O wetted cheeks, with bleared eyes,  How fully do you show The pangs that in their bosom
lies, And grief they undergo! 60. Their dolour in their bitterness So greatly they bemoan,
That hell itself this to express Doth echo with their groan. 61. Thus broiling on the burning
grates, They now to wailing go, And say of those unhappy fates That did them thus undo. 62.
Alas, my grief! hard hap had I Those dolours here to find, A living death, in hell I lie, Involv'd
with grief of mind. 63. I once was fair for light and grace, My days were long and good; I
lived in a blessed place Where was most heav'nly food. 64. But wretch I am, I slighted life,
I chose in death to live; O, for these days now, if I might, Ten thousand worlds would give.
65. What time had I to pray and read, What time to hear the word! What means to help me at
my need, Did God to me afford! 66. Examples, too, of piety I every day did see, But they abuse
and slight did I, O, woe be unto me. 67. I now remember how my friend Reproved me of vice,
And bid me mind my latter end, Both once, and twice, and thrice. 68. But O, deluded man, I
did My back upon him turn; Eternal life I did not heed, For which I now do mourn. 69. Ah, golden
time, I did thee spend In sin and idleness, Ah, health and wealth, I did you lend To bring
me to distress. 70. My feet to evil I let run, And tongue of folly talk; My eyes to vanity
hath gone, Thus did I vainly walk. 71. I did as greatly toil and strain Myself with sin to
please, As if that everlasting grain Could have been found in these. 72. But nothing, nothing
have I found But weeping, and alas, And sorrow, which doth now surround Me, and augment my
cross. 73. Ah, bleeding conscience, how did I Thee check when thou didst tell Me of my faults,
for which I lie Dead while I live in hell. 74. I took thee for some peevish foe, When thou
didst me accuse, Therefore I did thee buffet so, And counsel did refuse. 75. Thou often didst
me tidings bring, How God did me dislike, Because I took delight in sin, But I thy news did
slight. 76. Ah, Mind, why didst thou do those things That now do work my woe? Ah, Will, why
was thou thus inclin'd Me ever to undo? 77. My senses, how were you beguil'd When you said
sin was good? It hath in all parts me defil'd, And drown'd me like a flood. 78. Ah, that I
now a being have, In sorrow and in pain; Mother, would you had been my grave, But this I wish
in vain. 79. Had I been made a cockatrice, A toad, or such-like thing;[13] Yea, had I been
made snow or ice, Then had I had no sin; 80. A block, a stock, a stone, or clot, Is happier
than I; For they know neither cold nor hot, To live nor yet to die. 81. I envy now the happiness
Of those that are in light, I hate the very name of bliss, 'Cause I have there no right. 82.
I grieve to see that others are In glory, life, and well, Without all fear, or dread, or care,
While I am racked in hell. 83. Thus will these souls with watery eyes, And hacking of their
teeth, With wringing hands, and fearful cries, Expostulate their grief. 84. O set their teeth
they will, and gnash, And gnaw for very pain, While as with scorpions God doth lash Them for
their life so vain. 85. Again, still as they in this muse, Are feeding on the fire, To mind
there comes yet other news, To screw their torments higher. 86. Which is the length of this
estate, Where they at present lie; Which in a word I thus relate, 'Tis to eternity. 87. This
thought now is so firmly fix'd In all that comes to mind, And also is so strongly mix'd With
wrath of every kind. 88. So that whatever they do know, Or see, or think, or feel, For ever
still doth strike them through As with a bar of steel. 89. For EVER shineth in the fire, EVER
is on the chains; 'Tis also in the pit of ire, And tastes in all their pains. 90. For ever
separate from God, From peace, and life, and rest; For ever underneath the rod That vengeance
liketh best. 91. O ever, ever, this will drown'd Them quite and make them cry, We never shall
get o'er thy bound, O, great eternity! 92. They sooner now the stars may count Than lose these
dismal bands; Or see to what the motes[14] among Or number up the sands. 93. Then see an end
of this their woe, Which now for sin they have; O wantons, take heed what you do, Sin will
you never save. 94. They sooner may drink up the sea, Than shake off these their fears; Or
make another in one day As big with brinish tears; 95. Than put an end to misery, In which
they now do roar, Or help themselves; no, they must cry, Alas, for evermore. 96. When years
by thousands on a heap Are passed o'er their head; Yet still the fruits of sin they reap Among
the ghostly dead. 97. Yea, when they have time out of mind Be in this case so ill, For EVER,
EVER is behind[15] Yet for them to fulfill.

EBAL AND GERIZZIM,

OR

THE BLESSING AND THE  CURSE:

BEING A SHORT EXHORTATION  TO SINNERS, BY THE MERCY  AND SEVERITY OF GOD.

FROM MOUNT GERIZZIM.

Besides what I said of the Four Last Things,
And of the weal and woe that from them springs;
An after-word still runneth in my mind,
Which I shall here expose unto that wind
That may it blow into that very hand
That needs it. Also that it may be scann'd
With greatest soberness, shall be my prayer,
As well as diligence and godly care;
So to present it unto public view,
That only truth and peace may thence ensue.
    My talk shall be of that amazing love
Of God we read of; which, that it may prove,
By its engaging arguments to save
Thee, I shall lay out that poor help I have
Thee to entice; that thou wouldst dearly fall
In love with thy salvation, and with all
That doth thereto concur, that thou mayst be
As blessed as the Blessed can make thee,
Not only here but in the world to come,
In bliss, which, I pray God, may be thy home.
    But first, I would advise thee to bethink
Thyself, how sin hath laid thee at the brink
Of hell, where thou art lulled fast asleep
In Satan's arms, who also will thee keep
As senseless and secure as e'er he may,
Lest thou shouldst wake, and see't, and run away
Unto that Jesus, whom the Father sent
Into the world, for this cause and intent,
That such as thou, from such a thrall as this
Might'st be released, and made heir of bliss.
Now that thou may'st awake, the danger fly,
And so escape the death that others die,
Come, let me set my trumpet to thine ear,
Be willing all my message for to hear:
'Tis for thy life, O do it not refuse;
Wo unto them good counsel do abuse.
Thou art at present in that very case,
Which argues thou art destitute of grace:
For he that lies where sin hath laid him, lies
Under the curse, graceless, and so he dies
In body and in soul, within that range,
If God his heart in mercy doth not change
Before he goes the way of all the earth,
Before he lose his spirit and his breath.
Repentance there is none within the grave,
Nor Christ, nor grace, nor mercies for to save
Thee from the vengeance due unto thy sin,
If now thou dost not truly close with him.
    Thou art like him that sleepeth in the sea
On broken boards, which, without guide or stay,
Are driven whither winds and water will;
While greedy beasts do wait to have their fill
By feeding on his carcass, when he shall
Turn overboard, and without mercy fall
Into the jaws of such as make a prey
Of those whom justice drowneth in the sea.
    Thou art like him that snoring still doth lie
Upon the bed of vain security,
Whilst all about him into burning flame
By fire is turned; yea, and while the frame
And building where he lies consuming is,
And while himself these burnings cannot miss.
    Thou art like one that hangeth by a thread
Over the mouth of hell, as one half-dead;
And O, how soon this thread may broken be,
Or cut by death, is yet unknown to thee!
But sure it is, if all the weight of sin,
And all that Satan, too, hath doing been,
Or yet can do, can break this crazy thread,
'Twill not be long before, among the dead,
Thou tumble do, as linked fast in chains,
With them to wait in fear for future pains.
    What shall I say? Wilt thou not yet awake?
Nor yet of thy poor soul some pity take?
Among the lions it hood-winked lies;
O, that the Lord would open once thine eyes
That thou might'st see it, then I dare say thou,
As half-bereft of wits, wouldst cry out, How
Shall I escape? Lord help, O! help with speed,
Reach down thy hand from heav'n, for help I need,
To save me from the lions, for I fear
This soul of mine they will in pieces tear. How
    did the old Church of England reform itself?
Roughly speaking, the English Reformation
did two things. It affirmed something, and
it denied something.

First, it affirmed something. For instance,
the Church of England affirmed that the Church in this
country in the sixteenth century was one with
the Church of the sixth century. It affirmed
that it was the very same Church that had
been established in Palestine on the
Day of Pentecost, and in this realm by Augustine
in 597. It reaffirmed its old national
independence in things local just as it
    had affirmed it in the days of Pope Gregory,
It re-affirmed its adherence to
every doctrine[12] held by the undivided Church,
without adding thereto, or taking therefrom.

{16}

Then, it denied something. It denied the
right of foreigners to interfere in purely
English affairs; it denied the right of the Bishop
    of one National Church to exercise
his power in another National Church;
it denied the claim of the Bishop of Rome
to exercise jurisdiction over the Archbishop
of Canterbury; it denied the power of
any one part of the Church to impose local decisions,
or local dogmas, upon any other part of
the Church.

Thus, the Reformation both affirmed and
denied. It affirmed the constitutional rights
of the Church as against the unconstitutional
claims of the Pope, and it denied the
unconstitutional claims of the State as against
    the constitutional rights of the Church.

Much
more, very much more, "for weal or
for woe," it did. It had to buy its experience.
The Reformation was not born grown up. It made
its mistakes, as every growing movement
will do. It is still growing, still making mistakes,
still purging and pruning itself as it
grows; and it is still asserting its right
to reform itself where it {17} has gone wrong,
and to return to the old ideal where it
has departed from it. And this old ideal
is wrapped up in the sixth name:--
    
(VI) THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH.

Re-formation must be based upon its original
formation if it would aim at real reform.
It is not necessarily a mechanical imitation of the
past, but a genuine portrait of the permanent. It
is, then, to the Primitive Church that we
must look for the principles of reformation.
If the meaning of a will is contested
    years after the testator's death, reference
will be made, as far as possible, to
the testator's contemporaries, or to writings
which might best interpret his intentions.
This is what the English Reformers of the sixteenth
century tell us that they did. They refer
perpetually to the past; over and over
again they send us to the "ancient fathers,"[13]
as to those living and writing nearest
to the days when the Church was established,
and as most likely to know her mind. They go back
to what the "Commination Service" calls "The Primitive
Church". This "Primitive Church" is the Reformed
Church now established in England. {18}
The Reformers themselves never meant it to
be anything else, and would have been the first
to protest against the unhistoric, low, and modern
use of the word "established". In
this sense, they would have been
the sturdiest of sturdy "Protestants".

And
this word Protestant reminds us that there is
one more name frequently given to the Church of
England, but not included in our scheme,
because found nowhere in the Prayer Book.

THE
PROTESTANT CHURCH.

The term is a foreign one--not English.
It comes from Germany and was given to the Lutherans in 1529, because
they protested against an edict[14] forbidding them to regulate their
own local ecclesiastical affairs, pending the decision of a General
Council.

It had nothing whatever to do with "protesting" against
ceremonial. The ceremonial of the Church in Lutheran Germany is at
least as carefully elaborated as that seen in the majority of English
churches.
Yea, rise again he did out of the earth,
And shook off from him all the chains of death;
Then at his chariot wheels he captive led
His foes, and trod upon the serpent's head;
Riding in triumph to his Father's throne,
There to possess the kingdom as his own.
What say'st thou, wilt not yet unto him come?
His arms are open, in his heart is room
To lay thee; be not then discouraged,
Although thy sins be many, great, and red;
Unto thee righteousness he will impute,
And with the kisses of his mouth salute
Thy drooping soul, and will it so uphold,
As that thy shaking conscience shall be bold
To come to mercy's seat with great access,
There to expostulate with that justice
That burns like fiery flames against all those
That do not with this blessed Jesus close;
Which unto thee will do no harm, but good,
Because thou hast reliance on that blood
That justice saith hath given him content,
For all that do unfeignedly repent
Their ill-spent life, and roll upon free grace,
That they within that bosom might have place,
That open is to such, where they shall lie
In ease, and gladness, and felicity,
World without end, according to that state
I have, nay, better than I, can relate.
    If thou shalt still object, thou yet art vile,
And hast a heart that will not reconcile
Unto the holy law, but will rebel,
Hark yet to what I shall thee farther tell.
Two things are yet behind that help thee will,
If God should put into thy mind that skill,
So to improve them as becometh those
That would with mercy and forgiveness close.
 First, then, let this sink down into thy heart,
That Christ is not a Saviour in part,
But every way so fully he is made
That all of those that underneath his shade
And wing would sit, and shroud their weary soul,
That even Moses dare it not control,
But justify it, approve of 't, and conclude
No man nor angel must himself intrude
With such doctrine that may oppose the same,
On pain of blaspheming that holy name,
Which God himself hath given unto men,
To stay, to trust, to lean themselves on, when
They feel themselves assaulted, and made fear
Their sin will not let them in life appear.
 For as God made him perfect righteousness,
That he his love might to the height express,
And us present complete before the throne;
Sanctification, too, of his own
He hath prepared, in which do we stand,
Complete in holiness, at his right hand.
Now this sanctification is not
That holiness which is in us, but that
Which in the person of this Jesus is,
And can inherently be only his.
But is imputed to us for our good.
As is his active righteousness and blood;
Which is the cause, though we infirm are found,
That mercy and forgiveness doth abound
To us-ward, and that why we are not shent[16] 
And empty, and away rebuked sent,
Because that all we do imperfect is.
Bless God, then, for this holiness of his,
And learn to look by faith on that alone,
When thou seest thou hast nothing of thine own;
Yea, when thy heart most willing is to do
What God by his good word doth call thee to;
And when thou find'st most holiness within,
And greatest power over every sin,
Yet then to Jesus look, and thou shalt see
In him sanctification for thee,
Far more complete than all that thou canst find
In the most upright heart and willing mind,
That ever man or angels did possess,
When most filled with inherent righteousness.
Besides, if thou forgettest here to live,
And Satan get thee once into his sieve,
He will so hide thy wheat, and show thy brun[17]
That thou wilt quickly cry, I am undone.
Alas, thy goodliest attainments here,
Though like the fairest blossoms they appear,
How quickly will they lour and decay,
And be as if they all were fled away,
When once the east-wind of temptations beat
Upon thee, with their dry and blasting heat!
Rich men will not account their treasure lies
In crack'd groats and four-pence half-pennies,[18] 
But in those bags they have within their chests,
In staple goods, which shall within their breasts
Have place accordingly, because they see
Their substance lieth here. But if that be
But shaken, then they quickly fear, and cry,
Alas, 'tis not this small and odd money,
We carry in our pockets for to spend,
Will make us rich, or much will stand our friend.
If famine or if want do us assail,
How quickly will these little pieces fail!
    If thou be wise, consider what I say
And look for all in Christ, where no decay
Is like to be; then though thy present frame
Be much in up-and-down, yet he the same
Abideth, yea, and still at God's right hand,
As thy most perfect holiness will stand.
It is, I say, not like to that in thee,
Now high, then low, now out, then in, but he
Most perfect is, when thou art at the worst
The same, the very same; I said at first,
This helpeth much when thou art buffeted,
And when thy graces lie in thee as dead;
Then to believe they are all perfect still
In Christ thy head, who hath that blessed skill,
Yet to present thee by what is in him
Unto his Father, one that hath no sin. They
have not all "the like nature of Sacraments
of the Gospel," in that they were not all
"ordained by Christ Himself". It is the nature
of the two Sacraments of the Gospel that we
now consider.
(II) THE NATURE OF THE SACRAMENTS.
Nor help thyself thou mayst against him thus:
O Satan, though my heart indeed be worse
Than 'twas a while ago, yet I perceive
Thou shalt me not of happiness bereave,
Nor yet of holiness; for by the Word
I find that Jesus Christ, our blessed Lord,
Is made sanctification for me
In his own person, where all graces be,
As water in the fountain; and that I,
By means of that, have yet a sanctity,
Both personal and perfect every way;
And that is Christ himself, as Paul doth say.
Now, though my crazy pitcher oft doth leak,
By means of which my graces are so weak,
And so much spent, that one I cannot find
Able to stay or help my feeble mind;
Yet then I look to Jesus, and see all
In him that wanting is in me, and shall
Again take courage, and believe he will
Present me upright in his person, till
He humble me for all my foolishness,
And then again fill me with holiness.