In the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, D. C., there has happily been preserved a most
interesting collection of these early efforts. The small deerskin shirts worn as outer garments
by the little Sioux were perhaps among the most interesting and elaborate. They are generally
embroidered with dyed moose hair and split quills of birds in their natural colors, large split
quills or flattened smaller quills used whole. The work has an embossed effect which is very
striking. A coat for an adult of Sioux workmanship, made of calfskin thicker and less pliant
than the deerskin ordinarily used for garments, carries a broad band of quill embroidery, broken
by whorls of the same, the center of each holding a highly decorated tassel made of narrow
strips of deerskin, bound at intervals with split porcupine quills. These ornamental tassels
carry the idea of decoration below the bands, and have a changeable and living effect which
is admirable. In a smaller shirt, the whole body is covered at irregular intervals with whorls
of the finest porcupine quill work, edged by a border of interlaced black and white quills,
finished with perforated shells. Many of the designs are edged with narrow zigzag borders of
the split quills in natural colors carefully matched and lapped in very exact fashion. There
is one small shirt, made with a decorative border of tanned ermine skins in alternate squares
of fur and beautifully colored quill embroidery, not one tint of which is out of harmony with
the soft yellow of the deerskin body. The edge of the shirt is finished in very civilized fashion,
with ermine tails, each pendant, banded with blue quills, at alternating heights, making a
shining zigzag of blue along the fringe. The simplicity of treatment and purity of color in
this little garment were fascinating, and must have invested the small savage who wore it with
the dignity of a prince.

The mother who evolved the scheme and manner of decoration carried her bit of genius in an
uncivilized squaw body, but had none the less a true feeling for beauty, and in this mother
task lifted the plane of the art of her people to a higher level.

The purely decorative ability which lived and flourished before the advent of civilization
lost its distinctive simplicity of character when woven cloth of brilliant red flannel and
the tempting glamour of colored glass beads came into their horizon, although they accepted
these new materials with avidity. Porcupine quill work seems to have been no longer practiced,
although a few headbands of ceremony are to be found among the tribes, and now and then one
comes across a veritable treasure, an evidence of long and unremitting toil, which has been
preserved with veneration.

Of course many valuable results of the best early embroideries still exist among the Indians
themselves.

A very striking feature of both early and late work is the fringing, which plays an important
part in the decoration of garments. The fringe materials were generally of the longest procurable
dried moose hair, the finely cut strips of deerskin, or, in some instances, the tough stems
of river and swamp grasses twisted, braided and interwoven in every conceivable manner, and
varied along the depth of the fringes by small perforated shells, teeth of animals, seeds of
pine, or other shapely and hard substances which gave variety and added weight. Beads of bone
and shell are not uncommon, or small bits of hammered metal. In one or two instances I have
seen long deerskin fringes with stained or painted designs, emphasized with seeds or shells
at centers of circles, or corners of zigzags. This ingenious use of a decorative fringe gave
an effect of elaborate ornament with comparatively small labor.

Perhaps the best lesson we have to learn from this bygone phase of decorative effort is in
the possibilities of genuine art, where scant materials of effect are available.

A thoughtful and exact study of early Indian art gives abundant indication of the effect of
intimacy with the moods and phenomena of Nature, incident to the lives of an outdoor people.

Many of the designs which decorate the larger pieces, like shirts and blankets, were evidently
so inspired. The designs of lengthened and unequal zigzags are lightning flashes translated
into embroidery; the lateral lines of broken direction are water waves moving in masses. There
are clouds and stars and moons to be found among them, and if we could interpret them we might
even find records of the sensations with which they were regarded.

It would seem to argue a want of inventive faculty, that the aboriginal women never conceived
the idea of weaving fibers together in textiles, but were contented with the skins of animals
for warmth of body covering. The two alternatives of so close and warm a substance as tanned
skins, or nakedness, seem to a civilized mind to demand some intermediate substance. This,
however, was not felt as a want, at least not to the extent of inspiring a textile. Perhaps
we should never have had the unique porcupine quill embroidery except for the close-grained
skin foundation, which made it possible and permanent. Certainly the cleverness with which
the idea of weaving has been used in the evolution of the Indian blanket shows that only the
initial thought was lacking. The subsequent use of the arts of spinning and weaving, with the
retention of the original idea of decoration in design and coloring, has made the Indian blanket
an article of great commercial value.

Fortunately, these productions are valuable to their producers, and even to other members of
the tribes, and were carefully preserved from casualties, so that there are still many examples
of Indian manufacture, such as belts of wampum, and headbands of ceremony, to be found among
existing tribes.

These early specimens are not only intrinsically valuable, but give many a clue to what may
be called the spiritual side of the aborigines. They had not learned the limits of representation,
and as this history deals with results of life and not with the impulse toward expression which
lies at the root of design, we need not attempt more than a suggestion of some of the results.
The unguided impulses of Indian art, as seen or imagined in their work, lies behind the work
itself and can be read only by its materialization.

CHAPTER II -- THE CREWELWORK OF OUR PURITAN MOTHERS

The crewelwork of New England was the first ornamental stitchery practiced in this country
by women of European race, and in their hands made its first appearance even during the days
of privation and nights of fear which were their portion in this strange new world to which
they had come.

The seed of it was brought by that winged creature of destiny, the Mayflower, hidden in the
folds or decorating the borders of the precious household linen which was a part of the gear
of the first Pilgrims. In its hollow interior there was room for bed dressings and table napery,
even when the high-posted bedsteads and tables which they had adorned were abandoned, or exchanged
for peace of mind and liberty of action.

It may have declared itself in the very first years of settlement, before they had encountered
the savage antagonism of the aborigines, and while they still had only the privations incident
to pioneer life; or it may have been after the long struggle for ascendancy and possession
was over, and they could settle down in hard-won homes. Upon neighboring or contiguous farms
there they gradually drew together the threads of memory concerning former peaceful occupations,
and wove them once more into the warp of daily life. They could visit one another, exchanging
domestic experiences, or reminiscences of spiritual struggles of their own or of fellow Pilgrims,
and old-time hand occupations would be a mutual lullaby and an exorcism of anxiety.

The real beginning of embroidery as a national art was probably at a later period, for its
previous practice would be but a continuation of old-world occupations or diversions of life.

The devoted mothers of the American race, who sailed the seas in those far-off days, might
have brought some favorite "piece" of embroidery among their most intimate belongings, wherewithal
to while away the hours of weary days upon the limitless breadths of ocean. There would be
intervals of calm between storms, and periods when even the merest shred of a home-practiced
art would be doubly and trebly valued, like a piece of heavenly raiment to a naked and banished
angel.

The most natural effort of the woman standing in the midst of such new and strenuous conditions
as surrounded the Pilgrim mothers in America, would be to reproduce something which had meant
peace and tranquillity in former days. We can imagine her, searching the closely packed iron-bound
chests which held most of the worldly goods of the traversing pilgrims--those famous chests,
the boards of which had been carefully doweled and faithfully put together to resist outward
and inward pressure--packed and repacked with constant misgivings and hopeful foresight. In
those crowded treasure chests it was possible there might be found skeins of crewel, and even
working patterns which some hopeful instinct had prompted her to preserve.

While the Puritan mother was scheming to add embroidery to her occupations, she did not forget
to train each small maid of the family to the use of the needle. Ruth and Peace and Harmony
and Mercy made their samplers as faithfully as though they were growing up under the shade
of the apple trees of old England instead of among the blackened stumps of newly cut forests.

So the old art survived its transplantation and rooted itself in spite of storms of terror,
and during and after the test of fire and blood, and spread, after the manner of art and knowledge,
until it became the joy and comfort of a new race, a vehicle of feminine dexterity and an expression
of the creative instinct with which in a greater or lesser degree we are all endowed.

We can easily believe that stores of linen and precious china, as well as the small wheels
for the spinning of the flax, could not be denied to the devoted women who chose to share the
hard fortunes of their Pilgrim husbands and fathers. It is probable that in one form or another
possessions of crewel embroidery were transported with them.

I know of no well-authenticated specimen which came in actual substance in that elastic vessel,
but undoubtedly there were such, while many and many existed in the minds and memories of the
women of the new colony, to come to life and take on actual form, color and substance when
the days of their privations were numbered. If such actual treasured things existed and were
preserved through the early days of colonial life, every stitch of them would hold within itself
traditions of tranquillity in a world where homes stood, and fields were tilled in safety,
because of the vast plains of ocean which lay between them and savage tribes.

In the earliest days of the colonies we could hardly expect more than the necessary practice
of the needle, but when we come to the second period, when neighborhoods became towns, and
cabins grew into more or less well-equipped farmhouses, Puritan women gladly reverted to the
accomplishments of pre-American conditions. The familiar crewelwork of England was the form
of needlework which became popular.

In looking for materials with which to recreate this art, they had not at that time far to
seek. Wool and flax were farm products, necessities of pioneer life, and their manufacture
into cloth was a well-understood domestic art.

Domestic animals had shared the tremendous experiment of transplantation of a fragment of the
English race, and had suffered, no doubt, with their masters and owners, the struggles with
savages and unaccustomed circumstances, but they had survived and increased "after their kind."
Even through the strenuous wars against their very existence by uncivilized man, they lived
and increased. Cows "calved," and sheep "lambed," and wool in abundance was to be had.

The enterprising Puritan woman pulled the long-fibered straggling lock of wool, sorted out
and rejected from the uniform fleeces, carded it with her little hand cards into yard-long
finger-sized rolls, and twisted it upon her large wheel spindle, producing much such thread
as an Italian peasant woman spins upon her distaff to-day as she walks upon the shore at Baiæ.

If the pioneer was a natural copyist, she doubled and twisted it, to make it in the exact fashion
of the English crewel; if adventurous and independent, she worked it single threaded. This
yarn had all the pliant qualities necessary for embroidery, and was in fact uncolored crewel.

So, also, the production of flax thread, when the crop of flax was grown, and the long stems
had struggled upward to their greatest heights, and finished themselves in a cloud of multitudinous
blue flax flowers, beautiful enough to be grown for beauty alone, they pulled and made into
slender bundles, and laid under the current of the brook which neighbored most pioneer houses,
until the thready fibers could be washed and scraped from the vegetable outer coat, the perishable
parts of their composition, and combed into separateness. Then it was ready for the small flax
wheel of the housewife. Every woman had both wool wheel and flax wheel, the latter of all grades
of beauty, from those made for the use of queens and ladies of high degree--royal for elaboration--to
the modest ashen wheel, derived from a long line of industrious and careful foremothers, or
copied by the clever Pilgrim fathers, from some adventurous wheel which had made the long voyage
from civilized Holland to uncivilized America. 

No Belgian forces remained behind. No sooner did the Germans enter the town than they shot five
or six inhabitants whom they caused to leave their houses. In the evening, pretending that a superior
German officer had been killed on the Grand Place by the son of the Burgomaster, or, according
to another version of the story, that a conspiracy had been hatched against the superior commandant
by the Burgomaster and his family, the Germans took every man who was inside of Aerschot; they led them,
fifty at a time, some distance from the town, grouped them in lines of four men, and, making
them run ahead of them, shot them and killed them afterward with their bayonets. More than forty men
were found thus massacred.

They gave up the town to be pillaged, taking from private residences all they could take, breaking
furniture, and forcing safes. The following day they lined up, three by three, the villagers
whom they had arrested the day before, taking one man out of each line. These they led to a
distance of about 100 meters from the town, taking with them the Burgomaster of the town, Mr.
Tielmans, and his son, aged 15½ years, and his brother, and shot them.

Later on they forced the remaining villagers to dig holes to bury their victims.

For three whole days they continued to pillage and set fire to everything
in sight.

About 150 inhabitants of Aerschot are supposed to have been thus massacred.

The largest part of the city is totally destroyed. Five times the Germans tried to set fire to
the large church, the interior of which has been sacked. The records of the town have been carried
away.

The ambulance attendants, although wearing the Red Cross badge, were not respected. One of them
reports that German troops fired upon him while he was collecting
his wounded, and that they continued to fire even though he displayed
his Red Cross armband.

Moreover, during the entire day of the 19th, while he was engaged in hospital service, he was
threatened and ill-used. A German officer, among others, took him by the head, thrusting against
his forehead the butt of a revolver. A collector, wearing the insignia of the Red Cross, was killed
in the Rue de l'Hospital on the evening of Aug. 19 by Germans.

Deny Any Civilian Attack.

From all the testimony taken it appears that the civil population of Aerschot has in no wise
participated in the hostilities, that no shot was fired by them; that all the witnesses agree
in pointing out the improbability of the German version, according to which the Burgomaster's
son, a youth of 15½ years, and of extremely gentle disposition, is said to have fired upon a superior
German officer during the night of Aug. 19. Still more improbable is the version of the conspiracy
organized by the Burgomaster.

It is to be remarked that if--a thing which is not known--a German officer has been hit on the
Grand Place, it might have happened by a stray bullet, German soldiers being engaged in shooting
in the neighboring streets in order to frighten the populace.

Moreover, the Burgomaster, a very quiet man, had repeatedly warned his fellow-citizens, by means of
posters and circulars addressed to every inhabitant of the town, that in case of invasion
they were to abstain from any hostility. These posters were still
in evidence when the Germans entered the city, and they were shown
to them.

The German troops which were traversing localities situated
on this side of Aerschot indulged in the same horrors. They shot fleeing
citizens and set fire to and sacked private houses, all this without
provocation.

At Rotselaer, for instance, they set fire to about fifteen
houses. A German officer, addressing an inhabitant whose house was
afire, wanted to make him declare, at the point of a pistol, that
the fire had been started by the Belgians. When this inhabitant protested,
claiming that the Belgians had left the town the previous evening,
this officer declared that if the Germans had set fire to the town
it was due probably to the fact that the civilians had fired at them,
a fact which is also denied by all the witnesses.

There, too, the
German troops pillaged everything they could lay their hands on during
their passage. This little neighborly fling passed down two generations before it came
to me from the later days of the colony.

Yellows of different complexions were discovered in mayweed, goldenrod and sumac, and the little-girl
Faiths and Hopes and Harmonys came in with fingers pink from the handling of pokeberries and
purple from blackberry stain, tempting the sight with evanescent dyes which would not keep
their color even when stayed with alum and fortified with salt. All this made Mistress Windham's
memory the more sad. A good reliable rose red was always wanting. Madder could be purchased,
for it was raised in the Southern colonies, but the madder was a brown red. Finally some enterprising
merchantman introduced cochineal, and the vacuum was filled. With a judicious addition of logwood,
rose red, wine red and deep claret were achieved.

The dye of dyes was indigo, for the blue of heaven, or the paler blue of snow shadows, to a
blue which was black or a black which was blue, was within its capacity. And the convenience
of it! The indigo tub was everywhere an adjunct to all home manufactures. It dyed the yarn
for the universal knitting, and the wool which was a part of the blue-gray homespun for the
wear of the men of the household. "One-third of white wool, one-third of indigo-dyed wool,
and one-third of black sheep's wool," was the formula for this universal texture. Perhaps it
was not too much to say that the gray days of the Pilgrim mother's life were enriched by this
royal color.

The soft yarns, carefully spun from selected wool, took kindly to the natural dyes, and our
friend, the Puritan housewife, soon found herself in possession of a stock of home-manufactured
material, soft and flexible in quality, and quite as good in color as that of the lamented
English crewels. The homespun and woven linens with which her chests were stocked were exactly
the ground for decorative needlework of the kind which she had known in her English childhood,
long before questions of conscience had come to trouble her, or the boy who had grown up to
be her husband had been wakened from a comfortable existence by the cat-o'-nine-tails of conscience,
and sent across the sea to stifle his doubts in fighting savagery.

Probably the Puritan mother could stop thinking for a while about the training of Thomas and
Peace and Harmony, and the rest of the dozen and a half of children which were the allotted
portion of every Puritan wife, while she selected out intervals of her long busy days, as one
selects out bits of color from bundles of uninteresting patches, and devoted them to absolutely
superfluous needlework.

What a joy it must have been to ponder whether she should use deep pink or celestial blue for
the flowers of her pattern, instead of remembering how red poor baby Thomas's little cushions
of flesh had grown under the smart slaps of her corset board when he overcame his sister Faith
in a fair fight about nothing, and what a relief the making of crewel roses must have been
from the doubts and cares of a constantly increasing family!

She sorted out her colors, three shades of green, three of cochineal red, two of madder--one
of them a real salmon color--numberless shades of indigo, yellows and oranges and browns in
goodly bunches, ready for the long stretches of fair solid white linen split into valances
or sewed into a counterpane. Truly she was a happy woman, and she would show Mistress Schuyler,
with her endless "blue-and-white," what she could do with her colors! Then she had a misgiving,
and reflected for a moment on the unregeneracy of the human soul, and that poor Mistress Schuyler's
quiet airs of superiority really came from her Dutch blood, for her mother was an English Puritan
who had married a Hollander, and her own husband revealed to her in the dead of night, when
all hearts are opened, his belief that "Brother Schuyler had been moved to emigrate much more
by greed of profitable trade with the savages than by longings for liberty of conscience."

She went back to her "pattern," which she just now remembered had been lent her by poor Mistress
Schuyler, and was soon absorbed in making long lines of pin pricks along the outlines of the
pattern, so that she could sift powdered charcoal through and catch the shapes of leaves and
curves on her fair white linen.

Her foot was on the rocker of the cradle all the time, and the last baby was asleep in it.
The hooded cherry cradle which had rocked the three girls and four boys, counting the wee velvet-scalped
Jonathan, against whose coming the cradle had been polished with rottenstone and whale oil
until it shone like mahogany.

Should the roses of the pattern be red or pink? and the columbines blue or purple? She could
make a beautiful purple by steeping the sugar paper which wrapped her precious cone of West
Indian "loaf sugar," and sugar-paper purple was reasonably fast. So ran the thoughts of the
dear, straight-featured Puritan wife as she sorted her colors and worked her pattern.

At this period of her experience of the new life of the colonies, the chief end of her embroidery
was to help in creating a civilized home, to add to what had been built simply for shelter
and protection, some of the features which lived and grew only in the atmosphere of safety
and content. Hospitality was one of the features of New England life, and the first addition
to the family shelter was a bedroom, which bore the title of the "best bedroom," and a tall
four-post bed, which was the "best bed." The adornment of this holy altar of friendship was
an urgent duty.

When I began this allusion to the "best bedroom," I left the housewife sorting her tinted crewels
for its adornment, and she still sat, happily cutting the beautiful homespun linen into lengths
for the two bed valances, the one to hang from the upper frame which surrounded the top of
her four-post bedstead, and the other, which hung from the bed frame itself, and reached the
floor, hiding the dark space beneath the bed. The "high-post bedstead" had long groups of smooth
flutes in the upward course of its posts, and no footboard, a plain-sawed headboard and smooth
headposts. There must be a long curtain at the head of the bed, which would hide both headboard
and plain headposts, and this curtain she meant should have a wide border of crewelwork at
the top and bunches of flowers scattered at intervals on its surface.

None of Mistress Schuyler's "blue-and-white" for her! It should carry every color she could
muster, and the upper valance should have the same border as the head curtain. The lower valance
would not need it, for the counterpane would hang well over, and she meant somehow to bend
the border design into a wreath and work it in the center of the counterpane, and double-knot
a fringe to go entirely around it, the same as that which should edge the upper valance.

It was a luxurious bed dressing when it was finished, and nothing in it of material to differentiate
it from the embroideries which were being done in England at the very time. There were no original
features of design or arrangement. The close-lapping stitches were set in exactly the same
fashion, and, considering the absolute necessity of growing and manufacturing all the materials,
it was a wonderful performance.

It was not alone bed hangings which were subjects of New England crewelwork; there were mantel
valances, which covered the plain wooden mantels and hung at a safe distance above the generous
household fires. These were wrought with borders of crewelwork, and finished with elaborate
thread and crewel fringes. They were knotted into diamond-shaped openings, above the fringes,
three or four rows of them, the more the better, for in the general simplicity of furnishing,
these things were of value. Then there were table covers and stand covers and wall pockets
of various shapes and designs, and, in short, wherever the housewife could legitimately introduce
color and ornamentation, crewelwork made its appearance.

In the very infancy of the art of embroidery in America, the primitive needlewoman was possessed
of means and materials which fill the embroiderers of our rich later days with envy. Homespun
linen is no longer to be had, and dyes are no longer the pure, simple, hold-fast juices which
certain plants draw from the ground; and try as we may to emulate or imitate the old embroidered
valances which hung from the testers of the high-post bedsteads and concealed the dark cavities
beneath, and the coverlet besprinkled with bunches of impossible flowers done in home-concocted
shades of color upon heavy snow-white linen, we fall far short of the intrinsic merits of those
early hangings.

There are many survivals of these embroideries in New England families, who reverence all that
pertains to the lives of their founders. Bed hangings had less daily wear and friction than
pertained to other articles of decorative use, and generally maintained a healthy existence
until they ceased to be things of custom or fashion. When this time came they were folded away
with other treasures of household stuffs, in the reserved linen chest, whence they occasionally
emerge to tell tales of earlier days and compare themselves with the mixed specimens of needlework
art which have succeeded them, but cannot be properly called their descendants.

The possession of a good piece of old crewelwork, done in this country, is as strong a proof
of respectable ancestry as a patent of nobility, since no one in the busy early colonial days
had time for such work save those whose abundant leisure was secured by ample means and liberal
surroundings. The incessant social and intellectual activity demanded by modern conditions
of life was uncalled for. No woman, be she gentle or simple, had stepped from the peaceful
obscurity of home into the field of the world to war for its prizes or rewards. If the man
to whom she belonged failed to win bread or renown, the women who were bound in his family
starved for the one or lived without the luster of the other.

I have shown that even in the early days of flax growing and indigo dyeing the New England
farmer's wife had come into her heritage, not only of materials, but of the implements of manufacture.
She had the small flax wheel which dwelt in the keeping room, where she could sit and spin
like a lady of place and condition, and the large woolen wheel standing in the mote-laden air
of the garret, through which she walked up and down as she twisted the yarn.

Later, the colonial dame, if she belonged to the prosperous class--for there were classes,
even in the beginning of colonial life--had her beautifully shaped mahogany linen wheel, made
by the skillful artificers of England or Holland, more beautiful perhaps, but not more capable
than that of the farm wife, whittled and sandpapered into smoothness by her husband or sons,
and both were used with the same result.

The pioneer woodworker had a lively appreciation of the new woods of the new country, and made
free use of the abundant wild cherry for the furniture called for by the growing prosperity
of the settlements, its close grain and warm color giving it the preference over other native
woods, excepting always the curly and bird's-eye maple, which were novelties to the imported
artisan.

I remember that "curly maple" was a much prized wood in my own childhood, and that after carefully
searching for the outward marks of it among the trees of the farm, I asked about the shape
of its leaves and the color of its bark, so that I might know it--for children were supposed
to know species of trees by sight in my childhood. "Why," said my mother, "it looks like any
other maple tree on the outside; it is only that the wood is curly, just as some children have
curly hair." Even now, after all these years, a plane of curly maple suggests the curly hair
of some child beloved of nature. 

But to what lesson is Europe submitted? When after twenty centuries of Christianity, when after
100 years of the triumph of the principles of the rights of men, how is it possible that millions of persons,
without knowing why, can kill each other?

And Germany? If she knew of the Austrian note, it is inexcusable to
have permitted such a step. And if she did not know of this Austrian
note, what is her Governmental wisdom? You have an agreement which
drags you into war and you do not know what you have been dragged for? It was not only that they were a repetition of English luxury, but that they made
more of themselves in plain white interiors, by reason of insistent color, than the blond sisterhood
of maples could do. Cherry, which shared in a degree its depth of color, held its world for
a longer period, but no wood could withstand the magnificence of pure mahogany red, with the
story of its vegetable life written along its planes in lines and waves, deepening into darks,
and lightening into ocher and gold along its surfaces.

