Mr. Mason, on reading this treatise, thus expressed his feelings--"When the fear of the Lord
is a permanent principle, inwrought in the soul by the Divine Spirit, it is an undoubted token
of election to life eternal; for the most precious promises are made to God's fearers, even
the blessings of the everlasting covenant. Such are sure to be protected from every enemy;
to be guided by unerring counsel; and what will crown all, to be beloved of God the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost; till, by almighty and effectual grace, he will be translated to those
mansions of glory and blessedness prepared for him, where he will sing the praises of his covenant-God
while eternity endures."

May this be the blessed experience of all those who prayerfully read this important treatise.

Geo. Offor.

A TREATISE ON THE FEAR OF GOD

"BLESSED IS EVERY ONE THAT FEARETH THE LORD."--PSALM 128:1

"FEAR GOD."--REVELATION 14:7

This exhortation is not only found here in the text, but is in several other places of the
Scripture pressed, and that with much vehemency, upon the children of men, as in Ecclesiastes
12:13; 1 Peter 1:17, &c. I shall not trouble you with a long preamble, or forespeech to the
matter, nor shall I here so much as meddle with the context, but shall immediately fall upon
the words themselves, and briefly treat of the fear of God. The text, you see, presenteth us
with matter of greatest moment, to wit, with God, and with the fear of him.

First they present us with God, the true and living God, maker of the worlds, and upholder
of all things by the word of his power: that incomprehensible majesty, in comparison of whom
all nations are less than the drop of a bucket, and than the small dust of the balance. This
is he that fills heaven and earth, and is everywhere present with the children of men, beholding
the evil and the good; for he hath set his eyes upon all their ways.

So that, considering that by the text we have presented to our souls the Lord God and Maker
of us all, who also will be either our Saviour or Judge, we are in reason and duty bound to
give the more earnest heed to the things that shall be spoken, and be the more careful to receive
them, and put them in practice; for, as I said, as they present us with the mighty God, so
they exhort us to the highest duty towards him; to wit, to fear him. I call it the highest
duty, because it is, as I may call it, not only a duty in itself, but, as it were, the salt
that seasoneth every duty. For there is no duty performed by us that can by any means be accepted
of God, if it be not seasoned with godly fear. Wherefore the apostle saith, "Let us have grace,
whereby we may serve God acceptably, with reverence and godly fear." Of this fear, I say, I
would discourse at this time; but because this word fear is variously taken in the Scripture,
and because it may be profitable to us to see it in its variety, I shall therefore choose this
method for the managing of my discourse, even to show you the nature of the word in its several,
especially of the chiefest, acceptations. FIRST. Then by this word fear we are to understand
even God himself, who is the object of our fear. SECOND. By this word fear we are to understand
the Word of God, the rule and director of our fear. Each reported to the Chief of the Medical
Group, and each communicated with the other during the monitoring
activities.

3.2 SITE MONITORING GROUP

The Site Monitoring Group consisted of
a chief monitor, three other monitors, and several medical doctors.

By this word fear, as I said, we are to understand God himself, who is the object of our fear:
For the Divine majesty goeth often under this very name himself. So again, a little after,
when Jacob and Laban agree to make a covenant of peace each with other, though Laban, after
the jumbling way of the heathen by his oath, puts the true God and the false together, yet
"Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac" (Gen 31:42,53).[1]

By the fear, that is, by the God of his father Isaac. And, indeed, God may well be called the
fear of his people, not only because they have by his grace made him the object of their fear,
but because of the dread and terrible majesty that is in him. "He is a mighty God, a great
and terrible, and with God is terrible majesty" (Dan 7:28, 10:17; Neh 1:5, 4:14, 9:32; Job
37:22). Who knows the power of his anger? "The mountains quake at him, the hills melt, and
the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world, and all that dwell therein. Who can stand
before his indignation? who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out
like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him" (Nahum 1:5,6). His people know him, and have
his dread upon them, by virtue whereof there is begot and maintained in them that godly awe
and reverence of his majesty which is agreeable to their profession of him. "Let him be your
fear, and let him be your dread." Set his majesty before the eyes of your souls, and let his
excellency make you afraid with godly fear (Isa 8:13).

There are these things that make God to be the fear of his people.

First. His presence is dreadful, and that not only his presence in common, but his special,
yea, his most comfortable and joyous presence. When God comes to bring a soul news of mercy
and salvation, even that visit, that presence of God, is fearful. When Jacob went from Beersheba
towards Haran, he met with God in the way by a dream, in the which he apprehended a ladder
set upon the earth, whose top reached to heaven; now in this dream, from the top of this ladder,
he saw the Lord, and heard him speak unto him, not threateningly; not as having his fury come
up into his face; but in the most sweet and gracious manner, saluting him with promise of goodness
after promise of goodness, to the number of eight or nine; as will appear if you read the place.
Yet I say, when he awoke, all the grace that discovered itself in this heavenly vision to him
could not keep him from dread and fear of God's majesty. "And Jacob awaked out of his sleep,
and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not; and he was afraid and said,
How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of
heaven" (Gen 28:10-17).

At another time, to wit, when Jacob had that memorable visit from God, in which he gave him
power as a prince to prevail with him; yea, and gave him a name, that by his remembering it
he might call God's favour the better to his mind; yet even then and there such dread of the
majesty of God was upon him, that he went away wondering that his life was preserved (Gen 32:30).
Man crumbles to dust at the presence of God; yea, though he shows himself to us in his robes
of salvation. We have read how dreadful and how terrible even the presence of angels have been
unto men, and that when they have brought them good tidings from heaven (Judg 13:22; Matt 28:4;
Mark 16:5,6). Now, if angels, which are but creatures, are, through the glory that God has
put upon them, so fearful and terrible in their appearance to men, how much more dreadful and
terrible must God himself be to us, who are but dust and ashes! When Daniel had the vision
of his salvation sent him from heaven, for so it was, "O Daniel," said the messenger, "a man
greatly beloved"; yet behold the dread and terror of the person speaking fell with that weight
upon this good man's soul, that he could not stand, nor bear up under it. He stood trembling,
and cries out, "O my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned upon me, and I have retained
no strength. For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord? for as for me,
straightway there remained no strength in me" (Dan 10:16-17). See you here if the presence
of God is not a dreadful and a fearful thing; yea, his most gracious and merciful appearances;
how much more then when he showeth himself to us as one that disliketh our ways, as one that
is offended with us for our sins?

And there are three things that in an eminent manner make his presence dreadful to us.

1. The first is God's own greatness and majesty; the discovery of this, or of himself thus,
even as no poor mortals are able to conceive of him, is altogether unsupportable. The man dies
to whom he thus discovers himself. "And when I saw him," says John, "I fell at his feet as
dead" (Rev 1:17). It was this, therefore, that Job would have avoided in the day that he would
have approached unto him. But why doth Job after this manner thus speak to God? Why! it was
from a sense that he had of the dreadful majesty of God, even the great and dreadful God that
keepeth covenant with his people. The presence of a king is dreadful to the subject, yea, though
he carries it never so condescendingly; if then there be so much glory and dread in the presence
of the king, what fear and dread must there be, think you, in the presence of the eternal God?

2. When God giveth his presence to his people, that his presence causeth them to appear to
themselves more what they are, than at other times, by all other light, they can see. "O my
lord," said Daniel, "by the vision my sorrows are turned upon me"; and why was that, but because
by the glory of that vision, he saw his own vileness more than at other times. (Dan 10:8,16).
By the presence of God, when we have it indeed, even our best things, our comeliness, our sanctity
and righteousness, all do immediately turn to corruption and polluted rags. The brightness
of his glory dims them as the clear light of the shining sun puts out the glory of the fire
or candle, and covers them with the shadow of death. See also the truth of this in that vision
of the prophet Isaiah. Why, what is the matter? how came the prophet by this sight? Why, says
he, "mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts" (Isa 6:5). But do you think that this
outcry was caused by unbelief? No; nor yet begotten by slavish fear. This was to him the vision
of his Saviour, with whom also he had communion before (vv 2-5). It was the glory of that God
with whom he had now to do, that turned, as was noted before of Daniel, his comeliness in him
into corruption, and that gave him yet greater sense of the disproportion that was betwixt
his God and him, and so a greater sight of his defiled and polluted nature.

3. Add to this the revelation of God's goodness, and it must needs make his presence dreadful
to us; for when a poor defiled creature shall see that this great God hath, notwithstanding
his greatness, goodness in his heart, and mercy to bestow upon him: this makes his presence
yet the more dreadful. They "shall fear the Lord and his goodness" (Hosea 3:5). The goodness
as well as the greatness of God doth beget in the heart of his elect an awful reverence of
his majesty. "Fear ye not me? saith the Lord; will ye not tremble at my presence?" And then,
to engage us in our soul to the duty, he adds one of his wonderful mercies to the world, for
a motive, "Fear ye not me?" Why, who are thou? (Jer 5:22). Also, when Job had God present with
him, making manifest the goodness of his great heart to him, what doth he say? how doth he
behave himself in his presence? "I have heard of thee," says he, "by the hearing of the ear,
but now mine eye seeth thee; wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes" Most received less than 1 roentgen.

After 21 November 1945, no one approached closer than the fence which was 460 meters from
ground zero, although about 200 civilian and military personnel worked at or visited the TRINITY
site through 1946 (1; 16).

According to dosimetry data, entrance logs, and other records, about 1,000 individuals were
at the test site at some time between 16 July 1945 and the end of 1946. This number includes
not only the scientists, technicians, and military personnel who were part of Project TRINITY
but also many visitors. Some of the scientists took their wives and children on a tour of the
area near ground zero, particularly to view the green glass called
"trinitite," which covered the crater floor. They would not carry it so in the presence of a king, nor yet
of the lord of their land, were they but receivers of mercy at his hand. They carry it even
in their most eminent seasons, as if the sense and sight of God, and his blessed grace to their
souls in Christ, had a tendency in them to make men wanton: but indeed it is the most humbling
and heart-breaking sight in the world; it is fearful.[2]

Object. But would you not have us rejoice at the sight and sense of the forgiveness of our sins?

Answ. Yes; but yet I would have you, and indeed you shall, when God shall tell you that your
sins are pardoned indeed, "rejoice with trembling" (Psa 2:11). For then you have solid and
godly joy; a joyful heart, and wet eyes, in this will stand very well together; and it will
be so more or less. For if God shall come to you indeed, and visit you with the forgiveness
of sins, that visit removeth the guilt, but increaseth the sense of thy filth, and the sense
of this that God hath forgiven a filthy sinner, will make thee both rejoice and tremble. O,
the blessed confusion that will then cover thy face whilst thou, even thou, so vile a wretch,
shalt stand before God to receive at his hand thy pardon, and so the firstfruits of thy eternal
salvation--"That thou mayest remember, and be confounded, and never open thy mouth any more
because of thy shame (thy filth), when I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done,
saith the Lord God" (Eze 16:63). But,

Second. As the presence, so the name of God, is dreadful and fearful: wherefore his name doth
rightly go under the same title, "That thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, THE
LORD THY GOD" (Deut 28:58). The name of God, what is that, but that by which he is distinguished
and known from all others? Names are to distinguish by; so man is distinguished from beasts,
and angels from men; so heaven from earth, and darkness from light; especially when by the
name, the nature of the thing is signified and expressed; and so it was in their original,
for then names expressed the nature of the thing so named. And therefore it is that the name
of God is the object of our fear, because by his name his nature is expressed: "Holy and reverend
is his name" (Psa 111:9). (Exo 34:6,7).

Also his name, I am, Jah, Jehovah, with several others, what is by them intended but his nature,
as his power, wisdom, eternity, goodness, and omnipotency, &c., might be expressed and declared.
The name of God is therefore the object of a Christian's fear. David prayed to God that he
would unite his heart to fear his name (Psa 86:11). God tells us that his name is dreadful,
and that he is pleased to see men be afraid before his name. Yea, one reason why he executeth
so many judgments upon men as he doth, is that others might see and fear his name. "So shall
they fear the name of the Lord from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun" (Isa
59:19; Mal 2:5).

The name of a king is a name of fear--"And I am a great king, saith the Lord of hosts" (Mal
1:14). The name of master is a name of fear--"And if I be a master, where is my fear? saith
the Lord" (v 6). Yea, rightly to fear the Lord is a sign of a gracious heart. And again, "To
you that fear my name," saith he, "shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his
wings" (Mal 4:2). Yea, when Christ comes to judge the world, he will give reward to his servants
the prophets, and to his saints, "and to them that fear his name, small and great" (Rev 11:18).
Now, I say, since the name of God is that by which his nature is expressed, and since he naturally
is so glorious and incomprehensible, his name must needs be the object of our fear, and we
ought always to have a reverent awe of God upon our hearts at what time soever we think of,
or hear his name, but most of all, when we ourselves do take his holy and fearful name into
our mouths, especially in a religious manner, that is, in preaching, praying, or holy conference.
I do not by thus saying intend as if it was lawful to make mention of his name in light and
vain discourses; for we ought always to speak of it with reverence and godly fear, but I speak
it to put Christians in mind that they should not in religious duties show lightness of mind,
or be vain in their words when yet they are making mention of the name of the Lord--"Let every
one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity" (2 Tim 2:19).

Make mention then of the name of the Lord at all times with great dread of his majesty upon
our hearts, and in great soberness and truth. To do otherwise is to profane the name of the
Lord, and to take his name in vain; and "the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his
name in vain." Yea, God saith that he will cut off the man that doth it; so jealous is he of
the honour due unto his name (Exo 20:7; Lev 20:3). This therefore showeth you the dreadful
state of those that lightly, vainly, lyingly, and profanely make use of the name, this fearful
name of God, either by their blasphemous cursing and oaths, or by their fraudulent dealing
with their neighbour; for some men have no way to prevail with their neighbour to bow under
a cheat, but by calling falsely upon the name of the Lord to be witness that the wickedness
is good and honest; but how these men will escape, when they shall be judged, devouring fire
and everlasting burnings, for their profaning and blaspheming of the name of the Lord, becomes
them betimes to consider of (Jer 14:14,15; Eze 20:39; Exo 20:7).[3]

But,

Third. As the presence and name of God are dreadful and fearful in the church, so is his worship
and service. I say his worship, or the works of service to which we are by him enjoined while
we are in this world, are dreadful and fearful things. This David conceiveth, when he saith,
"But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy, and in thy fear will
I worship toward thy holy temple" (Psa 5:7). And again, saith he, "Serve the Lord with fear."
To praise God is a part of his worship. But, says Moses, "Who is a God like unto thee, glorious
in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?" (Exo 15:11). To rejoice before him is a part
of his worship; but David bids us "rejoice with trembling" (Psa 2:11). Yea, the whole of our
service to God, and every part thereof, ought to be done by us with reverence and godly fear.
(2 Cor 7:1; Heb 12).

1. That which makes the worship of God so fearful a thing, is, for that it is the worship of
GOD: all manner of service carries more or less dread and fear along with it, according as
the quality or condition of the person is to whom the worship and service is done. This is
seen in the service of subjects to their princes, the service of servants to their lords, and
the service of children to their parents. Divine worship, then, being due to God, for it is
now of Divine worship we speak, and this God so great and dreadful in himself and name, his
worship must therefore be a fearful thing.

2. Besides, this glorious Majesty is himself present to behold his worshippers in their worshipping
him. "When two or three of you are gathered together in my name, I am there." That is, gathered
together to worship him, "I am there," says he. And so, again, he is said to walk "in the midst
of the seven golden candlesticks" (Rev 1:13). That is, in the churches, and that with a countenance
like the sun, with a head and hair as white as snow, and with eyes like a flame of fire. This
puts dread and fear into his service; and therefore his servants should serve him with fear.

3. Above all things, God is jealous of his worship and service. In all the ten words, he telleth
us not anything of his being a jealous God, but in the second, which respecteth his worship
(Exo 20). This therefore doth also put dread and fear into the worship and service of God.

4. The judgments that sometimes God hath executed upon men for their want of godly fear, while
they have been in his worship and service, put fear and dread upon his holy appointments. (1.)
Nadab and Abihu were burned to death with fire from heaven, because they attempted to offer
false fire upon God's altar, and the reason rendered why they were so served, was, because
God will be sanctified in them that come nigh him (Lev 10:1-3). To sanctify his name is to
let him be thy dread and thy fear, and to do nothing in his worship but what is well-pleasing
to him. But because these men had not grace to do this, therefore they died before the Lord.
(2.) Eli's sons, for want of this fear, when they ministered in the holy worship of God, were
both slain in one day by the sword of the uncircumcised Philistines (see 1 Sam 2). (3.) Uzzah
was smitten, and died before the Lord, for but an unadvised touching of the ark, when the men
forsook it (1 Chron 13:9,10). (4.) Ananias and Sapphira his wife, for telling a lie in the
church, when they were before God, were both stricken dead upon the place before them all,
because they wanted the fear and dread of God's majesty, name, and service, when they came
before him (Acts 5).

This therefore should teach us to conclude, that, next to God's nature and name, his service,
his instituted worship, is the most dreadful thing under heaven. His name is upon his ordinances,
his eye is upon the worshippers, and his wrath and judgment upon those that worship not in
his fear. For this cause some of those at Corinth were by God himself cut off, and to others
he has given the back, and will again be with them no more (1 Cor 11:27-32).[4]

This also rebuketh three sorts of people.

[Three sorts of people rebuked.]

1. Such as regard not to worship God at all; be sure they have no reverence of his service,
nor fear of his majesty before their eyes. Sinner, thou dost not come before the Lord to worship
him; thou dost not bow before the high God; thou neither worshippest him in thy closet nor
in the congregation of saints. The fury of the Lord and his indignation must in short time
be poured out upon thee, and upon the families that call not upon his name (Psa 79:6; Jer 10:25).

2. This rebukes such as count it enough to present their body in the place where God is worshipped,
not minding with what heart, or with what spirit they come thither. Some come into the worship
of God to sleep there; some come thither to meet with their chapmen, and to get into the wicked
fellowship of their vain companions. Some come thither to feed their lustful and adulterous
eyes with the flattering beauty of their fellow-sinners. O what a sad account will these worshippers
give, when they shall count for all this, and be damned for it, because they come not to worship
the Lord with that fear of his name that became them to come in, when they presented themselves
before him![5]

3. This also rebukes those that care not, so they worship, how they worship; how, where, or
after what manner they worship God. Those, I mean, whose fear towards God "is taught by the
precept of men." They are hypocrites; their worship also is vain, and a stink in the nostrils
of God. (Isa 29:13,14; Matt 15:7-9; Mark 7:6,7).[6] Thus I conclude this first thing, namely,
that God is called our dread and fear.

OF THIS WORD FEAR AS IT IS TAKEN FOR THE WORD OF GOD.

I shall now come to the second thing, to wit, to the rule and director of our fear.

SECOND. But again, this word FEAR is sometimes to be taken for THE WORD, the written Word of
God; for that also is, and ought to be, the rule and director of our fear. So David calls it
in the nineteenth Psalm: "the fear of the Lord," saith he, "is clean, enduring for ever." The
fear of the Lord, that is, the Word of the Lord, the written word; for that which he calleth
in this place the fear of the Lord, even in the same place he calleth the law, statutes, commandments,
and judgments of God. All these words have respect to the same thing, to wit, to the Word of
God, jointly designing the glory of it. Among which phrases, as you see, this is one, "The
fear of the Lord is clean, enduring for ever." This written Word is therefore the object of
a Christian's fear. This is that also which David intended when he said, "Come, ye children,
hearken unto me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord" (Psa 34:11). I will teach you the fear,
that is, I will teach you the commandments, statutes, and judgments of the Lord, even as Moses
commanded the children of Israel--"Thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and
shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and
when thou liest down, and when thou risest up" (Deut 6:4-7).

That also in the eleventh of Isaiah intends the same, where the Father saith of the Son, that
he shall be of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord; that he may judge and smite the
earth with the rod of his mouth. This rod in the text is none other but the fear, the Word
of the Lord; for he was to be of a quick understanding, that he might smite, that is, execute
it according to the will of his Father, upon and among the children of men. Now this, as I
said, is called the fear of the Lord, because it is called the rule and director of our fear.
For we know not how to fear the Lord in a saving way without its guidance and direction. As
it is said of the priest that was sent back from the captivity to Samaria to teach the people
to fear the Lord, so it is said concerning the written Word; it is given to us, and left among
us, that we may read therein all the days of our life, and learn to fear the Lord (Deut 6:1-3,24,
10:12, 17:19). And here it is that, trembling at the Word of God, is even by God himself not
only taken notice of, but counted as laudable and praiseworthy, as is evident in the case of
Josiah (2 Chron 34:26,27). Such also are the approved of God, let them be condemned by whomsoever:
"Hear the word of the Lord, ye that tremble at his word; Your brethren that hated you, that
cast you out for my name's sake, said, Let the Lord be glorified; but he shall appear to your
joy, and they shall be ashamed" (Isa 66:5).

Further, such shall be looked to, by God himself cared for, and watched over, that no distress,
temptation, or affliction may overcome them and destroy them--"To this man will I look," saith
God, "even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and that trembleth at my word." Yea,
the way to escape dangers foretold, is to hearken to, understand, and fear the Word of God--"He
that feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh, made his servants and his cattle
flee into the houses," and they were secured; but "he that regarded not the word of the Lord,
left his servants and his cattle in the field," and they were destroyed of the hail (Exo 9:20-25).

If at any time the sins of a nation or church are discovered and bewailed, it is by them that
know and tremble at the word of God. When Ezra heard of the wickedness of his brethren, and
had a desire to humble himself before God for the same, who were they that would assist him
in that matter, but they that trembled at the word of God?--"Then," saith he, "were assembled
unto me every one that trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the transgression
of those that had been carried away" (Ezra 9:4). (Ezra 10:3). Now something of the dread and
terror of the Word lieth in these things.

First. As I have already hinted, from the author of them, they are the words of God. Therefore
you have Moses and the prophets, when they came to deliver their errand, their message to the
people, still saying, "Hear the word of the Lord," "Thus saith the Lord," and the like. So
when Ezekiel was sent to the house of Israel, in their state of religion, thus was he bid to
say unto them, "Thus saith the Lord God"; "Thus saith the Lord God" (Eze 2:4, 3:11). This is
the honour and majesty, then, that God hath put upon his written Word, and thus he hath done
even of purpose, that we might make them the rule and directory of our fear, and that we might
stand in awe of, and tremble at them. The remaining 46 men were technical personnel, laborers who erected
the 460-meter fence, or military policemen who served as guides. Eleven of these men, probably
members of the fence detail, spent several days at about 460 meters from ground zero.
 What is it, then, when God, the great God, shall roar out
of Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem, whose voice shakes not only the earth, but also
heaven? How doth holy David set it forth; "The voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of
the Lord is full of majesty," &c. (Psa 29).

Second. It is a Word that is fearful, and may well be called the fear of the Lord, because
of the subject matter of it; to wit, the state of sinners in another world; for that is it
unto which the whole Bible bendeth itself, either more immediately or more mediately. All its
doctrines, counsels, encouragements, threatenings, and judgments, have a look, one way or other,
upon us, with respect to the next world, which will be our last state, because it will be to
us a state eternal. This word, this law, these judgments, are they that we shall be disposed
of by--"The word that I have spoken," says Christ, "it shall judge you (and so consequently
dispose of you) in the last day" (John 12:48). Now, if we consider that our next state must
be eternal, either eternal glory or eternal fire, and that this eternal glory or this eternal
fire must be our portion, according as the words of God, revealed in the holy Scriptures, shall
determine; who will not but conclude that therefore the words of God are they at which we should
tremble, and they by which we should have our fear of God guided and directed, for by them
we are taught how to please him in everything?

