Why, at this very moment, I can think of at least a dozen odd people, whom I am in the habit
of meeting every day, and who, I verily believe, could no more help their oddities and crotchets
than some of their neighbors could help having warts come out on their hands. The crotchets
are natural and unavoidable in one case--the warts are natural and unavoidable in the other.

These are my notions about crotchety people, in general, and I have thrown them out, as one
throws out feather beds from the garret windows, when the house is on fire--so that the articles
that are to be thrown afterward may find a good soft spot to alight on, and not get damaged
by their fall.

The truth is, I am going to introduce to you an old gentleman, who had a large head, tolerably
well filled with crotchets; and as it is such a common thing for people to raise a hue and
cry against every body who has any oddities about him, I thought I would put you on your guard
a little, by a word of apology for that entire race of people, who are odd because they cannot
be any thing else.

This old gentleman, who, by the way, was a great friend of the little folks, is Mike Marble.
I introduce him to you as an old gentleman. But, although he was old, when I first saw him,
I must not forget that he was young once--as young as any of my readers--and that he played
his part as a boy, as well as his part as a man. There are a good many anecdotes afloat about
him and his odd way of doing things, before he grew up to manhood. My grandfather knew him
when he was a lad at school. I believe he and Mike were nearly of the same age.

That grandfather of mine, now I think of it, was a great story-teller. I have sometimes nearly
half made up my mind, while casting about me, to find some new mine of stories for my young
readers, that I would put my thinking cap on, and see if I could not recollect a budget of
my grandfather's stories, large enough to fill a book. I am not sure but I will do so one of
these days; and, if I do, I shall print the budget, depend upon it.

My grandfather and Mike Marble were as dear to each other as if they had been brothers. They
lived not far apart, and went to school together. For some of Mike's crotchets I am indebted
to this old friend of his. Others I picked up, here and there, among old people that knew him,
and others still I got from a personal acquaintance with him in his old age.

You will excuse me, if I call him Mike sometimes. He was always so called, when he was a boy,
I believe. And while you are excusing me for calling him Mike--you see I take you to be very
kind and obliging--you will please excuse me, also, if I happen to prefix the title of Uncle
to that nickname; for he was known, far and near, as Uncle Mike in his later days.

It is true that Michael was his name correctly and honestly spelled out. But it is equally
true that Michael was a name to which he seldom had to answer. At school, and among his playmates,
it was always Mike. I really believe, from what I have heard my grandfather say, that not half
the boys and girls in his neighborhood could have been convinced, by any common arguments,
that his name was Michael. Indeed, I remember having heard that once, when a schoolmate called
the fellow by the long name, just to see how it would seem, he and the other boy both burst
right out into a perfect roar of laughter over the sound of it. "For pity's sake," said he,
when he got over his laughing fit, "don't call me by that hard name again, as long as I live;"
and, as he seemed to be quite in earnest, none of the boys ever addressed him by any other
name than Mike, after that.

CHAP. III.

LIGHTS AND SHADOWS.

"But who is Mike Marble? where does he live? what sort of a man is he? what kind of oddities
has he got?"

My little friend, your questions come out so fast, and there is such a long string of them,
that they make me think of the way a whole pack of fire crackers go off, when you touch a coal
to one of them, and throw the whole into the street. I am going to tell you ever so many things
about this same Mike Marble. Before I get through with him, you will get very well acquainted
with him, I think. But Uncle Frank, you know, has got some oddities himself. When he has got
any thing to do, he, too, has his own way of doing it.

Some people, I suppose, if they were treating you to a few chapters in the history of this
singular man, would weave the threads together in a different manner from mine. They would
begin, very likely, by telling where the chap was born, who were his father and mother, how
many brothers and sisters he had, what their names were, whether he had any uncles and aunts,
and if he had, what kind of uncles and aunts they were, and all that sort of thing. And they
would describe Mike's appearance exactly--tell you whether he had black eyes or blue, gray
eyes or brown, red eyes or green. But I don't see much use in that.

Indeed, I am not sure but I shall keep you ignorant as to how he looked, and let you learn
what there is worth learning in his character--for character is the great thing, after all,
you know--by the stories I shall tell of him. I might, it is true, take every branch, and leaf,
and bud, and flower, of his character, and pick it all to pieces, and show you, in this way,
what he was made of. But you would get tired of all that. So I'll take another course. I'll
tell you what he said and did--what he said and did at different times, at different periods
in his life, and in different circumstances. Don't you think this is the best way to make you
acquainted with him? I do; for, if you find out what a person says, and does, and thinks, you
find out what he is.

One or two things, however, I must say about this Mike Marble, by way of general introduction.

He was born at a very interesting period--about nine years before the breaking out of the American
Revolution. He was quite an old man before he went to his final rest. Indeed, it is but a few
years since I saw his weather-beaten face, all lighted up with smiles. Unlike many other men,
when they get to be old, he never made a practice of carping at every thing he saw about him,
because it was not exactly in the style of 1776. He believed that there was wisdom among our
grandfathers and grandmothers, but that there is wisdom, also, among their grand-children.

I have told you that he had some oddities. I have hinted, too, in a sort of whisper, that I
do not consider a man an absolute Pagan, because he happens to be a little odd. Something more
than this I could say of Uncle Mike, odd as he was; but I guess you will find out what I think
of him, before I get through. Suffice it to say, that, while I didn't like him because he was
odd, I did like him, in spite of his oddities. He was a fine old man. As the world goes, he
was a most excellent man. He had his faults, a plenty of them; though I have sometimes thought

    "That e'en his failings lean'd to virtue's side."

Some of them did, I know. He had his faults, nevertheless. I confess that. He always had them,
no doubt. Faults are common things among mankind and womankind. But, with your consent, we
will trip lightly over all that part of our hero's history which is shaded with blemishes.

CHAP. IV.

CHIPS FROM BIRCH WOODS.

One of the worst things I ever heard of in the history of Mike, according to the best of my
recollection, was the way he served Billy Birch's dog. You must know something about this Billy
Birch. Burt was his real name. But it was changed into Birch by his neighbors, for a reason
which I will give you by and bye.

Mr. Burt was a pretty good sort of a man, in his own estimation, but not greatly or generally
beloved by his neighbors. He was a church-going man, and had a knack, somehow or other, of
getting along decently with the forms--the outside garments, so to speak--of religion. It was
really astonishing how glibly he would talk about religion. But as to the practical part of
it, he did not succeed as well. That was up-hill work for the old man.

He found it exceedingly difficult to keep himself "unspotted from the world." Some of his nearest
neighbors thought they could count a great many worldly spots upon him. I don't know how that
was, as I never was acquainted with the man, and ought not to judge him too harshly. Indeed,
Uncle Frank must endeavor to keep in mind, that with what measure we mete it shall be measured
to us again. But from all the shreds and patches of his history that have come down to the
present day, Mr. Birch does seem to have been a selfish man, and a great deal too fond of money.

My young friend, it is one of the most difficult things in this world, to act up to the spirit
of the golden rule of our Lord, and do to others as we would have them do to us, when we are
as full as we can hold of selfishness. You may lay that thought up in your memory.

Billy Birch found that truth out. What did he care how many newly-planted hills of corn and
rows of peas his hens might scratch up, provided the corn was not his corn, and the peas were
not his peas, and provided he did not have to suffer for the scratching? Not a mill. He would
sit, smoking his pipe--for he was a great smoker--in the old, straight-backed oak chair on
the stoop, as cool as a cucumber, while the biggest rooster on his premises, the lord of the
whole barn-yard, was leading a regiment of hens and petty roosters in a crusade upon Squire
Chapman's corn-field across the way; and if the Squire or one of his boys came over to inform
him what havoc the hens were making, and to ask him what to do with the troublesome creatures,
the old man would perhaps take his pipe out of his mouth, and, after slowly puffing out a cloud
of smoke, would say, "Why, drive them out, to be sure!"

What did he care, if his old mare--who, by the way, was a very nervous sort of a mare, and
could not stay long in one spot--what did he care, if the old creature did jump over the six-rail
fence around the good parson's field of clover, and eat what she wanted, and trample down,
in her nervous way of doing things, a good share of the rest of the clover? Why, it didn't
hurt him any. The old miser! It wasn't his field of clover that Katy trampled down. Gerald walked
beside Althea in silence, his hands in his pockets. Althea, too, was silent, and in her breast
was an oppression like that of the day--a dense, dull, clogging fear.

They had walked for quite ten minutes, and had left the avenue and were upon the high road
when Gerald said suddenly, 'I've had some news this morning.'

It was a relief to hear that there was some cause for his silence unconnected with her own
inadequacy. But anger rose with the relief; it must be some serious cause to excuse him.

'Have you? It's not bad, I hope,' she said, hoping that it was.

'Bad? No; I don't suppose it's bad. It's very odd, though,' said Gerald. He then put his hand
in his breast-pocket and drew out a letter. Althea saw that the writing on the envelope was Helen's.
'You may read it,' said Gerald.

The relief was now merged in something else. Althea's heart seemed standing still. It began to
thump heavily as she opened the letter and read what Helen wrote:

'DEAR
GERALD,--I have some surprising news for you; but I hardly think that
you will be more surprised than I was.

I am going to marry Mr. Kane. I accepted him some days ago, but have been getting used to the
idea since then, and you are the first person, after Aunt Grizel, who knows. It will be announced
next week and we shall probably be married very soon after you and Althea. I hope that both our ventures
will bring us much happiness. The more I see of Mr. Kane, the more I realise how fortunate
I am.--Yours affectionately,

'HELEN.'

Althea gazed at these words. Then she turned her eyes and gazed at Gerald, who was not looking
at her but straight before him. Her first clear thought was that if he had received a shock
it could not be comparable to that which she now felt. It could not be that the letter had fallen
on his heart like a sword, severing it. Althea's heart seemed cleft in twain. Gerald--Franklin--it
seemed to pulse, horribly divided and horribly bleeding. Looking still at Gerald's face, pallid,
absorbed, far from any thought of her, anger surged up in her, and not now against Gerald only,
but against Franklin, who had failed her, against Helen, who, it
seemed, did not win love, yet won something that took people to her
and bound them to her.

Then she remembered her unread letters, and remembered that Franklin could not have let this
news come to her from another than himself. She drew out his letter and read it. It, too, was short.

'DEAREST
ALTHEA,--I know how glad you'll be to hear that happiness, though of a different sort, has come
to me. Any sort of happiness was, for so many years, connected with you, dear Althea, that
it's very strange to me to realise that there can be another happiness; though this one is connected
with you, too, and that makes me gladder.

Helen, your dear friend, has consented to marry me, and the fact of her being your dear friend
makes her even dearer to me. So that I must thank you for your part in this wonderful new opening
in my life, as well as for all the other lovely things you've always meant to me.--Your friend, 'FRANKLIN.'

Althea's
hand dropped. She stared before her. She did not offer the letter
to Gerald.

'It's incredible,' she said, while, in the heavy mist, they walked along the road.

Gerald still said nothing. He held his head high, and gazed before
him too, as if intent on difficult and evasive thoughts.

'I could not have believed it of Helen,' said Althea after a little pause.

At this he started and looked round at her. 'Believed? What? What
is that you say?' His voice was sharp, as though she had struck him
on the raw.

Althea steadied her own voice; she wished to strike him
on the raw, and accurately; she could only do that by hiding from
him her own great dismay. 'I could not have believed that Helen would
marry a man merely for his money.' She did not believe that Helen
was to marry Franklin merely for his money. If only she could have
believed it; but the bleeding heart throbbed: 'Lost--lost--lost.'
It was not money that Helen had seen and accepted; it was something
that she herself had been too blind and weak to see.

The little fellow did stop, and stood as still as the old chestnut tree, against which the
lord of those woods was leaning.

"What are you munching there, sir?"

Moses, having no suspicion at all that he had been doing any harm to the estate of the old
man, replied, frankly and plainly, that he was eating birch.

"Aha!" said the farmer, "you are, eh? I'll teach you to eat my birch. I'll give you as much
birch as you will want for a fortnight!"

And he took the twig which Moses was gnawing out of his hands, and whipped him with it, until
he made the poor fellow cry out with pain and mortification.

"There, you thief!" he said, after flogging him to his heart's content, "that will teach you
to steal my birch, I guess."

From that day the selfish farmer began to be called Birch, in that section of the country;
and it was not many months before his name was almost as effectually changed as if he had applied
to the legislature of the state to have that body change it for him.

CHAP. V.

A PAIR OF THIEVES.

About that dog of Billy Birch. Have I not promised to tell you something about him, and the
accident that happened to him, which accident Mike Marble might have prevented, if he had made
the attempt? I have a good mind to tell you about these matters, at any rate, whether I have
made such a promise or not.

Mind now, reader, that, in telling this story, I don't mean to have it understood that I think
Mike did right. I'll grant that he did wrong. But I mention the fact to show what sort of mischief
Mike was up to, and what sort of blemishes those were, which I confess he had in his character;
for, as I think I said before, this trick was about as bad a thing as I ever heard of his being
guilty of.

Cæsar got to be a great hero in the sheep-killing business--a perfect Nimrod of a dog. It sometimes
happens, I fancy, that soldiers who spend more of their time in war, actually shooting people
and cutting their throats, after a while, get to liking the trade, and take pleasure in slaughtering
human beings, just as a carpenter or a printer might take pleasure in his trade. Well, it got
to be somewhat so with Cæsar, it would seem; for it often came to pass that two or three sheep
would be killed in one night, when, of course, a single fat one would supply his appetite bountifully
for several days, at least. He must have liked the business, or he would have contented himself
with killing only a sufficient number of sheep to keep him in food.

The neighbors who suffered from Cæsar's favorite amusement, complained, now and then, to his
master. But it did no good. "They must keep their sheep out of the way," the selfish man would
say. "Cæsar is a capital family dog. I don't know what I should do without him--he is so faithful."
That was as much satisfaction as they could ever get. Billy Birch would not shut up his dog
at night, and as for killing him, that was out of the question. He would rather lose his best
horse than Cæsar. True, the neighbors might have sued the owner of the dog, and have got the
value of their lost sheep in that way. But they were generally peaceable folks, and had a great
dread of going to law, especially with one of their own neighbors. The result was, that Cæsar's
business prospered more and more every day.

It was in the full tide of his success as a sheep-killer, that he came, one day, into Mr. Marble's
door yard, and took his station near the wood pile. Mike saw him, and knew well enough what
he came for. His father had just been slaughtering an ox, and some of the dainty pieces of
the animal were lying on the wood pile, the scent of which had brought Cæsar to the spot. No
doubt, having feasted on mutton so long, he had got a little sick of it, and thought he would
make a dinner on beef. He was a dainty fellow, you perceive.

I don't know what put it into Mike's head to play the trick he did on Cæsar. But he had no
sooner seen him smelling around among the refuse pieces of the ox's carcass, than he determined
to punish him, if possible, for his notorious crimes. So, without saying a word to any body,
he gathered up all the choice bits which had tempted the dog to the yard, and placed them within
a few feet of the heels of Mr. Marble's old chaise horse, who was standing there, hitched to
a gate post, waiting patiently for somebody to come and harness him.

Now this horse, who was called Old Ironsides, was as famous for his kicking habits as Cæsar
was for his sheep-killing. He seemed to take up kicking as a sort of amusement, to while away
his leisure hours. It was a wonder that Mr. Marble kept him; for he had kicked the old chaise
to pieces several times; and as to his stable, he made nothing of kicking off all the boards
within reach of his heels, every few nights, just for the fun of the thing, and to show what
mighty deeds he could do with his heels.

It is no more than an act of simple justice to Old Ironsides, however, to say, that he was
as gentle as a lamb to the children of his master. They could do any thing with him. Often,
when he was standing at the door, or in his stable, they would go close to him, and pat him
on his neck, and play with him, as if he were one of their own number; and the old fellow would
take all their fun good-humoredly. Among all his sins in the kicking line--and he had a great
many, first and last, to answer for--he never kicked either of the children. They all loved
him, in fact; and many is the dainty morsel he received from their hands.

Well, to go on with the story of Mike's piece of mischief. The dog, as he had expected, trotted
along after the pieces of meat, and commenced eating, without any suspicions of harm, right
under the battery of the old horse. There he remained for some moments, as Mike says, taking
as much comfort eating his dinner, as if he were dining on one of his father's sheep.

Old Ironsides took no notice of the dog. Indeed, he rather appeared half asleep. He often shut
his eyes, by the way, as he was standing at a post, and dosed, and nodded, much after the fashion
of some men, when they set out to listen to a sermon on Sunday. All the time, however, Mike
had a crotchet in his head.

"Halloo, old fellow!" he shouted, "what are you about there?"

In an instant Old Ironsides was wide awake, and, seeing at a glance what was going on behind,
he pricked up his ears, uttered one brief snort, and away went his heels like lightning. Poor
Cæsar! When he touched this planet again--for Old Ironsides had sent him up towards the moon,
much farther than I should want to go, in that style--he was a lost dog. Old Ironsides, who
proved to be as great a hero, in his way, as Cæsar was, had killed him. The great enemy of
sheepdom had ceased to breathe.

CHAP. VI

"PAYING HIM OFF;"

OR, AN ODD WAY OF SHOWING REVENGE.

Jacob Grumley, who was sometimes nicknamed Grumble, on account of a habit he had of finding
fault with every thing and every body, went to the same school with Mike Marble. Now Mike was
as remarkable for his cheerful and amiable disposition, as Jacob was for his ill nature. In
half of the cases where the latter would get angry, and storm, and rage, and fret, and foam,
like a hyena, or a Bengal tiger, the other would remain as cool as a cucumber, or, perhaps,
burst out into a hearty laugh.

One day, when several of the schoolboys, including Michael and Jacob, were playing ball on
the fine lawn in front of the school house, a dispute occurred between the young grumbler and
another boy, and Mike ventured to suggest to Jacob, as kindly as he could, that he was in the
wrong.

"You little meddlesome dunce!" said Jacob, all in a blaze of anger, "I'll teach you to mind
your own business, and let other people's quarrels alone." And, suiting his action to his words,
he struck Mike in the face so hard that the blood ran from his nose in a stream.

Well, what do you think Mike did, then? I know what some boys would have done, if they had
been in his place. They would have struck Jacob, at any cost. That is the way they would have
taken their revenge. That is the way, indeed, that Mike's school-fellows advised him to take
his revenge. Half a dozen of them, at least, surrounded him, and urged him to flog Jacob.

"I'd pay him off for it," said one.

"The rascal!" said another. "I'd make him smart for it."

"And we'll all stand by you," said one, "if you'll flog him."

"Mike wasn't a bit to blame, either," added another. "If I were in his place, if I wouldn't
make Jake see stars, then--"

