 RUDYARD KIPLING

I Speak to you, brother, because you have spoken to me, or rather you have spoken for me. I
am a native of Ulster. So far back as I can trace the faith of my forefathers they held the
faith for whose free observance you are afraid.

I call you brother, for so far as I am known beyond the circle of my personal friends it is
as a poet. We are not a numerous tribe, but the world has held us in honor, because on the
whole in poetry is found the highest and sincerest utterance of man's spirit. In this manner
of speaking if a man is not sincere his speech betrayeth him, for all true poetry was written
on the Mount of Transfiguration, and there is revelation in it and the mingling of heaven and
earth. I am jealous of the honor of poetry, and I am jealous of the good name of my country,
and I am impelled by both emotions to speak to you.

You have blood of our race in you, and you may, perhaps, have some knowledge of Irish sentiment.
You have offended against one of our noblest literary traditions in the manner in which you
have published your thoughts. You begin by quoting Scripture. You preface your verses on Ulster
by words from the mysterious oracles of humanity as if you had been inflamed and inspired by
the prophet of God; and you go on to sing of faith in peril and patriotism betrayed and the
danger of death and oppression by those who do murder by night, which things, if one truly
feels, he speaks of without consideration of commerce or what it shall profit him to speak.
But you, brother, have withheld your fears for your country and mine until they could yield
you a profit in two continents. After all this high speech about the Lord and the hour of national
darkness it shocks me to find this following your verses: "Copyrighted in the United States
of America by Rudyard Kipling." You are not in want. You are the most successful man of letters
of your time, and yet you are not above making profit out of the perils of your country. You
ape the lordly speech of the prophets, and you conclude by warning everybody not to reprint
your words at their peril. In Ireland every poet we honor has dedicated his genius to his country
without gain, and has given without stint, without any niggardly withholding of his gift when
his nation was dark and evil days. Not one of our writers, when deeply moved about Ireland,
has tried to sell the gift of the spirit. You, brother, hurt me when you declare your principles,
and declare a dividend to yourself out of your patriotism openly and at the same time.

I would not reason with you, but that I know there is something truly great and noble in you,
and there have been hours when the immortal in you secured your immortality in literature,
when you ceased to see life with that hard cinematograph eye of yours, and saw with the eyes
of the spirit, and power and tenderness and insight were mixed in magical tales. But you were
far from the innermost when you wrote of my countrymen us you did.

I have lived all my life in Ireland, holding a different faith from that held by the majority.
I know Ireland as few Irishmen know it, county by county, for I traveled all over Ireland for
years, and, Ulster man as I am, and proud of the Ulster people, I resent the crowning of Ulster
with all the virtues and the dismissal of other Irishmen as thieves and robbers. I resent the
cruelty with which you, a stranger, speak of the lovable and kindly people I know.

You are not even accurate in your history when you speak of Ulster's traditions and the blood
our forefathers spilt. Over a century ago Ulster was the strong and fast place of rebellion,
and it was in Ulster that the Volunteers stood beside their cannon and wrung the gift of political
freedom for the Irish Parliament. You are blundering in your blame. You speak of Irish greed
in I know not what connection, unless you speak of the war waged over the land; and yet you
ought to know that both parties in England have by Act after Act confessed the absolute justice
and rightness of that agitation, Unionist no less than Liberal, and both boast of their share
in answering the Irish appeal. They are both proud today of what they did. They made inquiry
into wrong and redressed it. But you, it seems, can only feel sore and angry that intolerable
conditions imposed by your laws were not borne in patience and silence. For what party do you
speak? What political ideal inspires you? When an Irishman has a grievance you smite him. How
differently would you have written of Runnymede and the valiant men who rebelled when oppressed.
You would have made heroes out of them. Have you no soul left, after admiring the rebels in
your own history, to sympathize with other rebels suffering deeper wrongs? Can you not see
deeper into the motives for rebellion than the hireling reporter who is sent to make up a case
for the paper of a party? The best men in Ulster, the best Unionists in Ireland will not be
grateful to you for libeling their countrymen in your verse. For, let the truth be known, the
mass of Irish Unionists are much more in love with Ireland than with England. They think Irish
Nationalists are mistaken, and they fight with them and use hard words, and all the time they
believe Irishmen of any party are better in the sight of God than Englishmen. They think Ireland
is the best country in the world to live in, and they hate to hear Irish people spoken of as
murderers and greedy scoundrels. Murderers! Why, there is more murder done in any four English
shires in a year than in the whole of the four provinces of Ireland! Greedy! The nation never
accepted a bribe, or took it as an equivalent or payment for an ideal, and what bribe would
not have been offered to Ireland if it had been willing to forswear its traditions.

I am a person whose whole being goes into a blaze at the thought of oppression of faith, and
yet I think my Catholic countrymen more tolerant than those who hold the faith I was born in.
I am a heretic judged by their standards, a heretic who has written and made public his heresies,
and I have never suffered in friendship or found my heresies an obstacle in life. I set my
knowledge, the knowledge of a lifetime, against your ignorance, and I say you have used your
genius to do Ireland and its people a wrong. You have intervened in a quarrel of which you
do not know the merits like any brawling bully, who passes, and only takes sides to use his
strength. If there was a high court of poetry, and those in power jealous of the noble name
of poet, and that none should use it save those who were truly Knights of the Holy Ghost, they
would hack the golden spurs from your heels and turn you out of the Court. You had the ear
of the world and you poisoned it with prejudice and ignorance. You had the power of song, and
you have always used it on behalf of the strong against the weak. You have smitten with all
your might at creatures who are frail on earth but mighty in the heavens, at generosity, at
truth, at justice, and heaven has withheld vision and power and beauty from you, for this your
verse is but a shallow newspaper article made to rhyme. Truly ought the golden spurs to be
hacked from your heels and you be thrust out of the Court.

1912

IDEALS OF THE NEW RURAL SOCIETY

For a country where political agitations follow each other as rapidly as plagues in an Eastern
city, it is curious how little constructive thought we can show on the ideals of a rural civilization.
But economic peace ought surely to have its victories to show as well as political war. I would
a thousand times rather dwell on what men and women working together may do than on what may
result from majorities at Westminster. The beauty of great civilizations has been built up
far more by the people working together than by any corporate action of the State. In these
socialistic days we grow pessimistic about our own efforts and optimistic about the working
of the legislature. I think we do right to expect great things from the State, but we ought
to expect still greater things from ourselves. We ought to know full well that, if the State
did twice as much as it does, we shall never rise out of mediocrity among the nations unless
we have unlimited faith in the power of our personal efforts to raise and transform Ireland,
and unless we translate the faith into works. The State can give a man an economic holding,
but only the man himself can make it into Earthly Paradise, and it is a dull business, unworthy
of a being made in the image of God, to grind away at work without some noble end to be served,
some glowing ideal to be attained.

Ireland is a horribly melancholy and cynical country. Our literary men and poets, who ought
to give us courage, have taken to writing about the Irish as people who "went forth to battle,
but always fell," sentimentalizing over incompetence instead of invigorating us and liberating
us and directing our energies. We have developed a new and clever school of Irish dramatists
who say they are holding up the mirror to Irish peasant nature, but they reflect nothing but
decadence. They delight in the broken lights of insanity, the ruffian who beats his wife, the
weakling who is unfortunate in love and who goes and drinks himself to death, while the little
decaying country towns are seized on with avidity and exhibited on the stage in every kind
of decay and human futility and meanness. Well, it is good to be chastened in spirit, but it
is a thousand times better to be invigorated in spirit. To be positive is always better than
to be negative. These writers understand and sympathize with Ireland more through their lower
nature than their higher nature. Judging by the things people write in Ireland, and by what
they go to see performed on the stage, it is more pleasing to them to see enacted characters
they know are meaner than themselves than to see characters which they know are nobler than
themselves.

All this is helping on our national pessimism and self-mistrust. It helps to fix these features
permanently in our national character, which were excusable enough as temporary moods after
defeat. The younger generation should hear nothing about failures. It should not be hypnotized
into self-contempt. Our energies in Ireland are sapped by a cynical self-mistrust which is
spread everywhere through society. It is natural enough that the elder generation, who were
promised so many millenniums, but who actually saw four million people deducted from the population,
should be cynical. But it is not right they should give only to the younger generation the
heritage of their disappointments without any heritage of hope. From early childhood parents
and friends are hypnotizing the child into beliefs and unbeliefs, and too often they are exiling
all nobility out of life, all confidence, all trust, all hope; they are insinuating a mean
self-seeking, a self-mistrust, a vulgar spirit which laughs at every high ideal, until at last
the hypnotized child is blinded to the presence of any beauty or nobility in life. No country
can ever hope to rise beyond a vulgar mediocrity where there is not unbounded confidence in
what its humanity can do. The self-confident American will make a great civilization yet, because
he believes with all his heart and soul in the future of his country and in the powers of the
American people. So that it's much more Custome and Example which perswades us, then any assured
knowledg; and notwithstanding that plurality of voices is a proof of no validity, in those
truths which are hard to be discovered; for that it's much more likely for one man alone to
have met with them, then a whole Nation; I could choose no Man whose opinion was to be preferr'd
before anothers: And I found my self even constrain'd to undertake the conduct of my self.

But as a man that walks alone, and in the dark, I resolv'd to goe so softly, and use so much circumspection
in all things, that though I advanc'd little, I would yet save my self from falling. Neither would
I begin quite to reject, some opinions, which formerly had crept into my belief, without the
consent of my reason, before I had employed time enough to form the project of the work I undertook,
and to seek the true Method to bring me to the knowledg of all those things, of which my understanding
was capable.

I had a little studyed, being young, of the parts of Philosophy, Logick, and of the Mathematicks,
the Analysis of the Geometricians, and Algebra: Three arts or sciences which seem'd to contribute
somewhat conducing to my designe: But examining them, I observ'd, That as for Logick, its Sylogisms,
and the greatest part of its other Rules, serve rather to expound to another the things they
know, or even as Lullies art, to speak with judgment of the things we are ignorant of, then
to learn them.

And although in effect it contain divers most true and good precepts, yet there are so many others
mixed amongst them, either hurtfull or superfluous, That it's even as difficult to extract
them, as 'tis to draw a Diana or a Mercury out of a lump of Marble, which is not yet rough-hewn; as
for the Analysis of the Ancients, and the Algebra of the Moderns; besides that, they extend only
to matters very abstract, and which seem to be of no use; The first being alwayes so tyed to
the consideration of figures, That it cannot exercise the understanding, without very much
tiring the imagination. And in the latter they have so subjected themselves to certain Rules and
cyphers, that they have made a confus'd and obscure art which perplexeth
the minde, in stead of a Science to instruct it. For this reason,
I thought I ought to seek some other Method, which comprehending the
advantages of these, they might be exempt from their defects. I
would like to exile the man who would set limits to what we can do, who would take the crown
and sceptre from the human will and say, marking out some petty enterprise as the limit--"Thus
far can we go and no farther, and here shall our life be stayed." Therefore I hate to hear
of stagnant societies who think because they have made butter well that they have crowned their
parochial generation with a halo of glory, and can rest content with the fame of it all, listening
to the whirr of the steam separators and pouching in peace of mind the extra penny a gallon
for their milk. And I dislike the little groups who meet a couple of times a year and call
themselves co-operators because they have got their fertilizers more cheaply, and have done
nothing else. Why, the village gombeen man has done more than that! He has at least brought
most of the necessaries of life there by his activities; and I say if we co-operators do not
aim at doing more than the Irish Scribes and Pharisees we shall have little to be proud of.
A poet, interpreting the words of Christ to His followers, who had scorned the followers of
the old order, made Him say:

     Scorn ye their hopes, their tears, their inward prayers?
     I say unto you, see that your souls live
     A deeper life than theirs.

The co-operative movement is delivering over the shaping of the rural life of Ireland, and
the building up of its rural civilization, into the hands of Irish farmers. The old order of
things has left Ireland unlovely. But if we do not passionately strive to build it better,
better for the men, for the women, for the children, of what worth are we? We continually come
across the phrase "the dull Saxon" in our Irish papers, it crops up in the speeches of our
public orators, but it was an English poet who said:

     I will not cease from mental fight,
     Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand
     Till we have built Jerusalem
     In England's green and pleasant land.

And it was the last great, poet England has produced, who had so much hope for humanity in
his country that in his latest song he could mix earth with heaven, and say that to human eyes:

     Shall shine the traffic of Jacob's ladder
     Hung betwixt Heaven and Charing Cross.

Shall we think more meanly of the future of Ireland than these "dull Saxons" think of the future
of their island? Shall we be content with humble crumbs fallen from the table of life, and
sit like beggars waiting only for what the commonwealth can do for us, leaving all high hopes
and aims to our rulers, whether they be English or Irish? Every people get the kind of Government
they deserve. A nation can exhibit no greater political wisdom in the mass than it generates
in its units. It is the pregnant idealism of the multitude which gives power to the makers
of great nations, otherwise the prophets of civilization are helpless as preachers in the desert
and solitary places. So I have always preached self-help above all other kinds of help, knowing
that if we strove passionately after this righteousness all other kinds of help would be at
our service. So, too, I would brush aside the officious interferer in co-operative affairs,
who would offer on behalf of the State to do for us what we should, and could, do far better
ourselves. We can build up a rural civilization in Ireland, shaping it to our hearts' desires,
warming it with life, but our rulers and officials can never be warmer than a stepfather, and
have no "large, divine, and comfortable words" for us; they tinker at the body when it is the
soul which requires to be healed and made whole. The soul of Ireland has to be kindled, and
it can be kindled only by the thought of great deeds and not by the hope of petty parsimonies
or petty gains.

Now, great deeds are never done vicariously. They are done directly and personally. No country
has grown to greatness mainly by the acts of some great ruler, but by the aggregate activities
of all its people. Therefore, every Irish community should make its own ideals and should work
for them. As great work can be done in a parish as in the legislative assemblies with a nation
at gaze. Do people say: "It is easier to work well with a nation at gaze?" I answer that true
greatness becomes the North Pole of humanity, and when it appears all the needles of Being
point to it. You of the young generation, who have not yet lost the generous ardour of youth,
believe it is as possible to do great work and make noble sacrifices, and to roll the acceptable
smoke of offering to Heaven by your work in an Irish parish, as in any city in the world. Like
the Greek architects--who saw in their dreams hills crowned with white marble pillared palaces
and images of beauty, until these rose up in actuality--so should you, not forgetting national
ideals, still most of all set before yourselves the ideal of your own neighborhood. How can
you speak of working for all Ireland, which you have not seen, if you do not labor and dream
for the Ireland before your eyes, which you see as you look out of your own door in the morning,
and on which you walk up and down through the day?

"What dream shall we dream or what labor shall we undertake?" you may ask, and it is right
that those who exhort should be asked in what manner and how precisely they would have the
listener act or think. I answer: the first thing to do is to create and realize the feeling
for the community, and break up the evil and petty isolation of man from man. This can be done
by every kind of co-operative effort where combined action is better than individual action.
The parish cannot take care of the child as well as the parents, but you will find in most
of the labors of life combined action is more fruitful than individual action. Some of you
have found this out in many branches of agriculture, of which your dairying, agricultural,
credit, poultry, and flax societies are witness. Some of you have combined to manufacture;
some to buy in common, some to sell in common. Some of you have the common ownership of thousands
of pounds' worth of expensive machinery. Some of you have carried the idea of co-operation
for economic ends farther, and have used the power which combination gives you to erect village
halls and to have libraries of books, the windows through which the life and wonder and power
of humanity can be seen. Some of you have light-heartedly, in the growing sympathy of unity,
revived the dances and songs and sports which are the right relaxation of labor. Some Irishwomen
here and there have heard beyond the four walls in which so much of their lives are spent the
music of a new day, and have started out to help and inspire the men and be good comrades to
them; and calling themselves United Irish-women, they have joined, as men have joined, to help
their sisters who are in economic servitude, or who suffer from the ignorance and indifference
to their special needs in life which pervade the administration of local government. We cannot
build up a rural civilization in Ireland without the aid of Irish women. It will help life
little if we have methods of the twentieth century in the fields, and those of the fifth century
in the home. A great writer said: "Woman is the last thing man will civilize." In the third, some
of those in morality, which he hath drawn from this Method. In the fourth, the reasons whereby
the existence of God and of the humane Soul is proved; which are the grounds of his Metaphysicks.
In the fift, the order of these Physicall questions, which he hath examined, and particularly
the explication of the hearts motion; with some other difficulties relating to Physick; as
also the difference between our Souls and those of beasts. In the last, what he conceives requisit
to make a further inquiry into Nature, then hath hitherto been made. And what reasons induc'd
him to write.

PART. I.

Right understanding is the most equally divided thing in the World; for every one beleevs himself
so well stor'd with it, that even those who in all other things are the hardest to be pleas'd,
seldom desire more of it then they have; wherein it is not likely that all Men are deceived: But it
rather witnesseth, That the faculty of right-judging and distinguishing truth from falshood (which
is properly call'd, Understanding or Reason) is naturally equal in all Men. And as the diversity
of our Opinions, is not, because some are more reasonable then others;
but only that we direct our thoughts several ways, neither do we consider
the same things. For 'tis not enough to have good faculties, but the
principal is, to apply them well. The greatest Souls are as capable
of the greatest Vices, as of the most eminent Vertues: And those who
move but very slowly, may advance much farther, if they always follow
the right way; then those who run and straggle from it. If the women carry on their work in connection with the associations
by which men earn their living they will have a greater certainty of permanence. I have seen
too many little industries and little associations of women workers spring up and perish in
Ireland, which depended on the efforts of some one person who had not drunk of the elixir of
immortal youth, and could not always continue the work she started; and I have come to the
conclusion that the women's organizations must be connected with the men's organizations, must
use their premises, village halls, and rooms for women's meetings. I do not believe women's
work can be promoted so well in any other way. Men and women have been companions in the world
from the dawn of time. I do not know where they are journeying to, but I believe they will
never get to the Delectable City if they journey apart from each other, and do not share each
other's burdens.

Working so, we create the conditions in which the spirit of the community grows strong. We
create the true communal idea, which the Socialists miss in their dream of a vast amalgamation
of whole nationalities in one great commercial undertaking. The true idea of the clan or commune
or tribe is to have in it as many people as will give it strength and importance, and so few
people that a personal tie may be established between them. Humanity has always grouped itself
instinctively in this way. It did so in the ancient clans and rural communes, and it does so
in the parishes and co-operative associations. If they were larger they would lose the sense
of unity. If they were smaller they would be too feeble for effectual work, and could not take
over the affairs of their district. A rural commune or co-operative community ought to have,
to a large extent, the character of a nation. It should manufacture for its members all things
which it profitably can manufacture for them, employing its own workmen, carpenters, bootmakers,
makers and menders of farming equipment, saddlery, harness, etc. It should aim at feeding its
members and their families cheaply and well, as far as possible, out of the meat and grain
produced in the district. It should have a mill to grind their grain, a creamery to manufacture
their butter; or where certain enterprises like a bacon factory are too great for it, it should
unite with other co-operative communities to furnish out such an enterprise. It should sell
for the members their produce, and buy for them their requirements, and hold for them labor-saving
machinery. It should put aside a certain portion of its profits every year for the creation
of halls, libraries, places for recreation and games, and it should pursue this plan steadily
with the purpose of giving its members every social and educational advantage which the civilization
of their time affords. It should have its councils or village parliaments, where improvements
and new ventures could be discussed. Such a community would soon generate a passionate devotion
to its own ideals and interests among the members, who would feel how their fortunes rose with
the fortunes of the associations of which they were all members. It would kindle and quicken
the intellect of every person in the community. It would create the atmosphere in which national
genius would emerge and find opportunities for its activity. The clan ought to be the antechamber
of the nation and the training ground for its statesmen. What opportunity leadership in the
councils of such a rural community would give to the best minds! The man of social genius at
present finds an unorganized community, and he does not know how to affect his fellow-citizens.
A man might easily despair of affecting the destinies of a nation of forty million people,
but yet start with eagerness to build up a kingdom of the size of Sligo, and shape it nearer
to the heart's desire. The organization of the rural population of Ireland in co-operative
associations will provide the instrument ready to the hand of the social reformer.

Some associations will be more dowered with ability than others, but one will learn from another,
and a vast network of living, progressive organizations will cover rural Ireland, democratic
in constitution and governed by the aristocracy of intellect and character.

Such associations would have great economic advantages in that they would be self-reliant and
self-contained, and would be less subject to fluctuation in their prosperity brought about
by national disasters and commercial crises than the present unorganized rural communities
are. They would have all their business under local control; and, aiming at feeding, clothing,
and manufacturing locally from local resources as far as possible, the slumps in foreign trade,
the shortage in supplies, the dislocations of commerce would affect them but little. They would
make the community wealthier. Every step towards this organization already taken in Ireland
has brought with it increased prosperity, and the towns benefit by increased purchasing power
on the part of these rural associations. New arts and industries would spring up under the
aegis of the local associations. Here we should find the weaving of rugs, there the manufacture
of toys, elsewhere the women would be engaged in embroidery or lace-making, and, perhaps, everywhere
we might get a revival of the old local industry of weaving homespuns. We are dreaming of nothing
impossible, nothing which has not been done somewhere already, nothing which we could not do
here in Ireland. True, it cannot be done all at once, but if we get the idea clearly in our
minds of the building up of a rural civilization in Ireland, we can labor at it with the grand
persistence of medieval burghers in their little towns, where one generation laid down the
foundations of a great cathedral, and saw only in hope and faith the gorgeous glooms over altar
and sanctuary, and the blaze and flame of stained glass, where apostles, prophets, and angelic
presences were pictured in fire: and the next generation raised high the walls, and only the
third generation saw the realization of what their grandsires had dreamed. We in Ireland should
not live only from day to day, for the day only, like the beasts in the field, but should think
of where all this long cavalcade of the Gael is tending, and how and in what manner their tents
will be pitched in the evening of their generation. A national purpose is the most unconquerable
and victorious of all things on earth. It can raise up Babylons from the sands of the desert,
and make imperial civilizations spring from out a score of huts, and after it has wrought its
will it can leave monuments that seem as everlasting a portion of nature as the rocks. For first
of all, that which I even now took for a rule, to wit, that those things which were most clearly
and distinctly conceived, are all true, is certain, only by reason, that God is or exists, and
that he is a perfect being, and that all which we have comes from
him.