MR. RUSKIN'S denunciation of the New Town of  Edinburgh includes, as I have heard it repeated,
nearly  all the stone and lime we have to show.  Many however  find a grand air and something
settled and imposing in  the better parts; and upon many, as I have said, the  confusion of
styles induces an agreeable stimulation of  the mind.  But upon the subject of our recent villa
architecture, I am frankly ready to mingle my tears with  Mr. Ruskin's, and it is a subject
which makes one envious  of his large declamatory and controversial eloquence.

Day by day, one new villa, one new object of  offence, is added to another; all around Newington
and  Morningside, the dismallest structures keep springing up  like mushrooms; the pleasant
hills are loaded with them,  each impudently squatted in its garden, each roofed and  carrying
chimneys like a house.  And yet a glance of an  eye discovers their true character.  They are
not houses;  for they were not designed with a view to human  habitation, and the internal
arrangements are, as they  tell me, fantastically unsuited to the needs of man.   They are
not buildings; for you can scarcely say a thing  is built where every measurement is in clamant
disproportion with its neighbour.  They belong to no  style of art, only to a form of business
much to be  regretted.

Why should it be cheaper to erect a structure where  the size of the windows bears no rational
relation to the  size of the front?  Is there any profit in a misplaced  chimney-stalk?  Does
a hard-working, greedy builder gain  more on a monstrosity than on a decent cottage of equal
plainness?  Frankly, we should say, No.  Bricks may be  omitted, and green timber employed,
in the construction  of even a very elegant design; and there is no reason why  a chimney should
be made to vent, because it is so  situated as to look comely from without.  On the other 
hand, there is a noble way of being ugly: a high-aspiring  fiasco like the fall of Lucifer.
There are daring and  gaudy buildings that manage to be offensive, without  being contemptible;
and we know that 'fools rush in where  angels fear to tread.'  But to aim at making a common-
place villa, and to make it insufferably ugly in each  particular; to attempt the homeliest
achievement, and to  attain the bottom of derided failure; not to have any  theory but profit
and yet, at an equal expense, to  outstrip all competitors in the art of conceiving and  rendering
permanent deformity; and to do all this in what  is, by nature, one of the most agreeable neighbourhoods
in Britain:- what are we to say, but that this also is a  distinction, hard to earn although
not greatly  worshipful?

Indifferent buildings give pain to the sensitive;  but these things offend the plainest taste.
It is a  danger which threatens the amenity of the town; and as  this eruption keeps spreading
on our borders, we have  ever the farther to walk among unpleasant sights, before  we gain
the country air.  If the population of Edinburgh  were a living, autonomous body, it would
arise like one  man and make night hideous with arson; the builders and  their accomplices
would be driven to work, like the Jews  of yore, with the trowel in one hand and the defensive
cutlass in the other; and as soon as one of these masonic  wonders had been consummated, right-minded
iconoclasts  should fall thereon and make an end of it at once.

Possibly these words may meet the eye of a builder  or two.  It is no use asking them to employ
an architect;  for that would be to touch them in a delicate quarter,  and its use would largely
depend on what architect they  were minded to call in.  But let them get any architect  in
the world to point out any reasonably well- proportioned villa, not his own design; and let
them  reproduce that model to satiety.

CHAPTER VIII. THE CALTON HILL.

THE east of new Edinburgh is guarded by a craggy  hill, of no great elevation, which the town
embraces.   The old London road runs on one side of it; while the New  Approach, leaving it
on the other hand, completes the  circuit.  You mount by stairs in a cutting of the rock to
find yourself in a field of monuments.  Dugald Stewart  has the honours of situation and architecture;
Burns is  memorialised lower down upon a spur; Lord Nelson, as  befits a sailor, gives his
name to the top-gallant of the  Calton Hill.  This latter erection has been differently  and
yet, in both cases, aptly compared to a telescope and  a butter-churn; comparisons apart, it
ranks among the  vilest of men's handiworks.  But the chief feature is an  unfinished range
of columns, 'the Modern Ruin' as it has  been called, an imposing object from far and near,
and  giving Edinburgh, even from the sea, that false air; of a  Modern Athens which has earned
for her so many slighting  speeches.  It was meant to be a National Monument; and  its present
state is a very suitable monument to certain  national characteristics.  The old Observatory
- a quaint  brown building on the edge of the steep - and the new  Observatory - a classical
edifice with a dome - occupy  the central portion of the summit.  All these are  scattered
on a green turf, browsed over by some sheep.

The scene suggests reflections on fame and on man's  injustice to the dead.  You see Dugald
Stewart rather  more handsomely commemorated than Burns. But Shakespeare the philosopher is chiefly
concerned with the effect of such news upon a rebel camp, and again he speaks through Hotspur:
"Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect The very life-blood of our enterprise; 'Tis catching
hither, even to our camp." Then Shakespeare pulls himself up and tries to get into Hotspur's
character again by representing to himself the circumstance: "He writes me here, that inward
sickness-- And that his friends by deputation could not So soon be drawn; nor did he think it
meet--" and so forth to the question: "...What say you to it?" "<i>Wor</i>. Your father's sickness
is a maim to us. <i>Hot</i>. A perilous gash, a very limb lopped off:--"
  This was  worthy of an artist, but it was done in
vain; and  although I think I have read nearly all the biographies  of Burns, I cannot remember
one in which the modesty of  nature was not violated, or where Fergusson was not  sacrificed
to the credit of his follower's originality.  They are indeed mistaken  if they think to please
the great originals; and whoever  puts Fergusson right with fame, cannot do better than  dedicate
his labours to the memory of Burns, who will be  the best delighted of the dead.

Of all places for a view, this Calton Hill is  perhaps the best; since you can see the Castle,
which you  lose from the Castle, and Arthur's Seat, which you cannot  see from Arthur's Seat.
It is the place to stroll on one  of those days of sunshine and east wind which are so  common
in our more than temperate summer.  The breeze  comes off the sea, with a little of the freshness,
and  that touch of chill, peculiar to the quarter, which is  delightful to certain very ruddy
organizations and  greatly the reverse to the majority of mankind.  It  brings with it a faint,
floating haze, a cunning  decolourizer, although not thick enough to obscure  outlines near
at hand.  But the haze lies more thickly to  windward at the far end of Musselburgh Bay; and
over the  Links of Aberlady and Berwick Law and the hump of the  Bass Rock it assumes the aspect
of a bank of thin sea  fog.

Immediately underneath upon the south, you command  the yards of the High School, and the towers
and courts  of the new Jail - a large place, castellated to the  extent of folly, standing
by itself on the edge of a  steep cliff, and often joyfully hailed by tourists as the  Castle.
In the one, you may perhaps see female prisoners  taking exercise like a string of nuns; in
the other,  schoolboys running at play and their shadows keeping step  with them.  From the
bottom of the valley, a gigantic  chimney rises almost to the level of the eye, a taller  and
a shapelier edifice than Nelson's Monument.  Look a  little farther, and there is Holyrood
Palace, with its  Gothic frontal and ruined abbey, and the red sentry  pacing smartly too and
fro before the door like a  mechanical figure in a panorama.  By way of an outpost,  you can
single out the little peak-roofed lodge, over  which Rizzio's murderers made their escape and
where  Queen Mary herself, according to gossip, bathed in white  wine to entertain her loveliness.
Behind and overhead,  lie the Queen's Park, from Muschat's Cairn to  Dumbiedykes, St. Margaret's
Loch, and the long wall of  Salisbury Crags: and thence, by knoll and rocky bulwark  and precipitous
slope, the eye rises to the top of  Arthur's Seat, a hill for magnitude, a mountain in virtue
of its bold design.  This upon your left.  Upon the  right, the roofs and spires of the Old
Town climb one  above another to where the citadel prints its broad bulk  and jagged crown
of bastions on the western sky. -  Perhaps it is now one in the afternoon; and at the same
instant of time, a ball rises to the summit of Nelson's  flagstaff close at hand, and, far
away, a puff of smoke  followed by a report bursts from the half-moon battery at  the Castle.
This is the time-gun by which people set  their watches, as far as the sea coast or in hill
farms  upon the Pentlands. - To complete the view, the eye  enfilades Princes Street, black
with traffic, and has a  broad look over the valley between the Old Town and the  New: here,
full of railway trains and stepped over by the  high North Bridge upon its many columns, and
there, green  with trees and gardens.

On the north, the Calton Hill is neither so abrupt  in itself nor has it so exceptional an
outlook; and yet  even here it commands a striking prospect.  A gully  separates it from the
New Town.  This is Greenside, where  witches were burned and tournaments held in former days.
Down that almost precipitous bank, Bothwell launched his  horse, and so first, as they say,
attracted the bright  eyes of Mary.  It is now tesselated with sheets and  blankets out to
dry, and the sound of people beating  carpets is rarely absent.  Beyond all this, the suburbs
run out to Leith; Leith camps on the seaside with her  forest of masts; Leith roads are full
of ships at anchor;  the sun picks out the white pharos upon Inchkeith Island;  the Firth extends
on either hand from the Ferry to the  May; the towns of Fifeshire sit, each in its bank of
blowing smoke, along the opposite coast; and the hills  enclose the view, except to the farthest
east, where the  haze of the horizon rests upon the open sea.  There lies  the road to Norway:
a dear road for Sir Patrick Spens and  his Scots Lords; and yonder smoke on the hither side
of  Largo Law is Aberdour, from whence they sailed to seek a  queen for Scotland.

'O lang, lang, may the ladies sit, Wi' their fans into their hand, Or ere they see Sir Patrick
Spens Come sailing to the land!'

The sight of the sea, even from a city, will bring  thoughts of storm and sea disaster.  The
sailors' wives  of Leith and the fisherwomen of Cockenzie, not sitting  languorously with fans,
but crowding to the tail of the  harbour with a shawl about their ears, may still look  vainly
for brave Scotsmen who will return no more, or  boats that have gone on their last fishing.
Since Sir  Patrick sailed from Aberdour, what a multitude have gone  down in the North Sea!
Yonder is Auldhame, where the  London smack went ashore and wreckers cut the rings from  ladies'
fingers; and a few miles round Fife Ness is the  fatal Inchcape, now a star of guidance; and
the lee shore  to the east of the Inchcape, is that Forfarshire coast  where Mucklebackit sorrowed
for his son.

These are the main features of the scene roughly  sketched.  How they are all tilted by the
inclination of  the ground, how each stands out in delicate relief  against the rest, what
manifold detail, and play of sun  and shadow, animate and accentuate the picture, is a  matter
for a person on the spot, and turning swiftly on  his heels, to grasp and bind together in
one  comprehensive look.  It is the character of such a  prospect, to be full of change and
of things moving.  The  multiplicity embarrasses the eye; and the mind, among so  much, suffers
itself to grow absorbed with single points.   You remark a tree in a hedgerow, or follow a
cart along a  country road.  You turn to the city, and see children,  dwarfed by distance into
pigmies, at play about suburban  doorsteps; you have a glimpse upon a thoroughfare where  people
are densely moving; you note ridge after ridge of  chimney-stacks running downhill one behind
another, and  church spires rising bravely from the sea of roofs.  At  one of the innumerable
windows, you watch a figure  moving; on one of the multitude of roofs, you watch  clambering
chimney-sweeps.  The wind takes a run and  scatters the smoke; bells are heard, far and near,
faint  and loud, to tell the hour; or perhaps a bird goes  dipping evenly over the housetops,
like a gull across the  waves.  And here you are in the meantime, on this  pastoral hillside,
among nibbling sheep and looked upon  by monumental buildings.

Return thither on some clear, dark, moonless night,  with a ring of frost in the air, and only
a star or two  set sparsedly in the vault of heaven; and you will find a  sight as stimulating
as the hoariest summit of the Alps.   The solitude seems perfect; the patient astronomer, flat
on his back under the Observatory dome and spying  heaven's secrets, is your only neighbour;
and yet from  all round you there come up the dull hum of the city, the  tramp of countless
people marching out of time, the  rattle of carriages and the continuous keen jingle of the
tramway bells.  An hour or so before, the gas was turned  on; lamplighters scoured the city;
in every house, from  kitchen to attic, the windows kindled and gleamed forth  into the dusk.
And so now, although the town lies blue  and darkling on her hills, innumerable spots of the
bright element shine far and near along the pavements and  upon the high facades.  Moving lights
of the railway pass  and repass below the stationary lights upon the bridge.   Lights burn
in the jail.  Lights burn high up in the tall  LANDS and on the Castle turrets, they burn low
down in  Greenside or along the Park.  They run out one beyond the  other into the dark country.
They walk in a procession  down to Leith, and shine singly far along Leith Pier.   Thus, the
plan of the city and her suburbs is mapped out  upon the ground of blackness, as when a child
pricks a  drawing full of pinholes and exposes it before a candle;  not the darkest night of
winter can conceal her high  station and fanciful design; every evening in the year  she proceeds
to illuminate herself in honour of her own  beauty; and as if to complete the scheme - or rather
as  if some prodigal Pharaoh were beginning to extend to the  adjacent sea and country - half-way
over to Fife, there  is an outpost of light upon Inchkeith, and far to  seaward, yet another
on the May.

And while you are looking, across upon the Castle  Hill, the drums and bugles begin to recall
the scattered  garrison; the air thrills with the sound; the bugles sing  aloud; and the last
rising flourish mounts and melts into  the darkness like a star: a martial swan-song, fitly
rounding in the labours of the day.

CHAPTER IX. WINTER AND NEW YEAR.

THE Scotch dialect is singularly rich in terms of  reproach against the winter wind.  SNELL,
BLAE, NIRLY,  and SCOWTHERING, are four of these significant vocables;  they are all words
that carry a shiver with them; and for  my part, as I see them aligned before me on the page,
I  am persuaded that a big wind comes tearing over the Firth  from Burntisland and the northern
hills; I think I can  hear it howl in the chimney, and as I set my face  northwards, feel its
smarting kisses on my cheek.  Even  in the names of places there is often a desolate,  inhospitable
sound; and I remember two from the near  neighbourhood of Edinburgh, Cauldhame and Blaw-weary,
that would promise but starving comfort to their  inhabitants.  The inclemency of heaven, which
has thus  endowed the language of Scotland with words, has also  largely modified the spirit
of its poetry.  Both poverty  and a northern climate teach men the love of the hearth  and
the sentiment of the family; and the latter, in its  own right, inclines a poet to the praise
of strong  waters.  In Scotland, all our singers have a stave or two  for blazing fires and
stout potations:- to get indoors  out of the wind and to swallow something hot to the  stomach,
are benefits so easily appreciated where they  dwelt!

And this is not only so in country districts where  the shepherd must wade in the snow all
day after his  flock, but in Edinburgh itself, and nowhere more  apparently stated than in
the works of our Edinburgh  poet, Fergusson.  He was a delicate youth, I take it, and  willingly
slunk from the robustious winter to an inn  fire-side.  Love was absent from his life, or only
present, if you prefer, in such a form that even the  least serious of Burns's amourettes was
ennobling by  comparison; and so there is nothing to temper the  sentiment of indoor revelry
which pervades the poor boy's  verses.  Although it is characteristic of his native  town,
and the manners of its youth to the present day,  this spirit has perhaps done something to
restrict his  popularity.  He recalls a supper-party pleasantry with  something akin to tenderness;
and sounds the praises of  the act of drinking as if it were virtuous, or at least  witty,
in itself.  The kindly jar, the warm atmosphere of  tavern parlours, and the revelry of lawyers'
clerks, do  not offer by themselves the materials of a rich  existence.  It was not choice,
so much as an external  fate, that kept Fergusson in this round of sordid  pleasures.  A Scot
of poetic temperament, and without  religious exaltation, drops as if by nature into the  public-house.
The picture may not be pleasing; but what  else is a man to do in this dog's weather?

To none but those who have themselves suffered the  thing in the body, can the gloom and depression
of our  Edinburgh winter be brought home. Shakespeare's Humour: "Falstaff"

BOOK II

I. Shakespeare's early attempts to portray himself and his wife: Biron, Adriana, Valentine
II. Shakespeare as Antonio the Merchant III. Shakespeare's Love-story:
the Sonnets: Part I IV. Shakespeare's Love-story: the Sonnets: Part
II V. Shakespeare's Love-story: the Sonnets: Part III VI. The First-fruit
of the Tree of Knowledge: Brutus VII. Dramas of Revenge and Jealousy:
Hamlet VIII. Dramas of Revenge and Jealousy: Othello IX.  People go by, so  drenched and draggle-tailed that I have
often wondered  how they found the heart to undress.  And meantime the  wind whistles through
the town as if it were an open  meadow; and if you lie awake all night, you hear it  shrieking
and raving overhead with a noise of shipwrecks  and of falling houses.  In a word, life is
so unsightly  that there are times when the heart turns sick in a man's  inside; and the look
of a tavern, or the thought of the  warm, fire-lit study, is like the touch of land to one
who has been long struggling with the seas.

As the weather hardens towards frost, the world  begins to improve for Edinburgh people.  We
enjoy superb,  sub-arctic sunsets, with the profile of the city stamped  in indigo upon a sky
of luminous green.  The wind may  still be cold, but there is a briskness in the air that 
stirs good blood.  People do not all look equally sour  and downcast.  They fall into two divisions:
one, the  knight of the blue face and hollow paunch, whom Winter  has gotten by the vitals;
the other well lined with New- year's fare, conscious of the touch of cold on his  periphery,
but stepping through it by the glow of his  internal fires.  Such an one I remember, triply
cased in  grease, whom no extremity of temperature could vanquish.   'Well,' would be his jovial
salutation, 'here's a  sneezer!'  And the look of these warm fellows is tonic,  and upholds
their drooping fellow-townsmen.

At length, Edinburgh, with her satellite hills and  all the sloping country, are sheeted up
in white.  If it  has happened in the dark hours, nurses pluck their  children out of bed and
run with them to some commanding  window, whence they may see the change that has been  worked
upon earth's face.  'A' the hills are covered wi'  snaw,' they sing, 'and Winter's noo come
fairly!'  And  the children, marvelling at the silence and the white  landscape, find a spell
appropriate to the season in the  words.  The reverberation of the snow increases the pale
daylight, and brings all objects nearer the eye.  The  Pentlands are smooth and glittering,
with here and there  the black ribbon of a dry-stone dyke, and here and there,  if there be
wind, a cloud of blowing snow upon a  shoulder.  The Firth seems a leaden creek, that a man
might almost jump across, between well-powdered Lothian  and well-powdered Fife.  And the effect
is not, as in  other cities, a thing of half a day; the streets are soon  trodden black, but
the country keeps its virgin white;  and you have only to lift your eyes and look over miles
of country snow.  An indescribable cheerfulness breathes  about the city; and the well-fed
heart sits lightly and  beats gaily in the - bosom.  It is New-year's weather.

New-year's Day, the great national festival, is a  time of family expansions and of deep carousal.
Sometimes, by a sore stoke of fate for this Calvinistic  people, the year's anniversary fails
upon a Sunday, when  the public-houses are inexorably closed, when singing and  even whistling
is banished from our homes and highways,  and the oldest toper feels called upon to go to church.
Thus pulled about, as if between two loyalties, the  Scotch have to decide many nice cases
of conscience, and  ride the marches narrowly between the weekly and the  annual observance.
A party of convivial musicians, next  door to a friend of mine, hung suspended in this manner
on the brink of their diversions.  From ten o'clock on  Sunday night, my friend heard them
tuning their  instruments: and as the hour of liberty drew near, each  must have had his music
open, his bow in readiness across  the fiddle, his foot already raised to mark the time, and
his nerves braced for execution; for hardly had the  twelfth stroke. sounded from the earliest
steeple, before  they had launced forth into a secular bravura.

Currant-loaf is now popular eating in all house- holds.  For weeks before the great morning,
confectioners  display stacks of Scotch bun - a dense, black substance,  inimical to life -
and full moons of shortbread adorned  with mottoes of peel or sugar-plum, in honour of the
season and the family affections.  'Frae Auld Reekie,' 'A  guid New Year to ye a',' 'For the
Auld Folk at Hame,' are  among the most favoured of these devices.  Can you not  see the carrier,
after half-a-day's journey on pinching  hill-roads, draw up before a cottage in Teviotdale,
or  perhaps in Manor Glen among the rowans, and the old  people receiving the parcel with moist
eyes and a prayer  for Jock or Jean in the city?  For at this season, on the  threshold of
another year of calamity and stubborn  conflict, men feel a need to draw closer the links that
unite them; they reckon the number of their friends, like  allies before a war; and the prayers
grow longer in the  morning as the absent are recommended by name into God's  keeping.

On the day itself, the shops are all shut as on a  Sunday; only taverns, toyshops, and other
holiday  magazines, keep open doors.  Every one looks for his  handsel.  The postman and the
lamplighters have left, at  every house in their districts, a copy of vernacular  verses, asking
and thanking in a breath; and it is  characteristic of Scotland that these verses may have
sometimes a touch of reality in detail or sentiment and a  measure of strength in the handling.
All over the town,  you may see comforter'd schoolboys hasting to squander  their half-crowns.
There are an infinity of visits to be  paid; all the world is in the street, except the daintier
classes; the sacramental greeting is heard upon all  sides; Auld Lang Syne is much in people's
mouths; and  whisky and shortbread are staple articles of consumption.   From an early hour
a stranger will be impressed by the  number of drunken men; and by afternoon drunkenness has
spread to the women.  With some classes of society, it is  as much a matter of duty to drink
hard on New-year's Day  as to go to church on Sunday.  Some have been saving  their wages for
perhaps a month to do the season honour.   Many carry a whisky-bottle in their pocket, which
they  will press with embarrassing effusion on a perfect  stranger.  It is inexpedient to risk
one's body in a cab,  or not, at least, until after a prolonged study of the  driver.  The
streets, which are thronged from end to end,  become a place for delicate pilotage.  Singly
or arm-in- arm, some speechless, others noisy and quarrelsome, the  votaries of the New Year
go meandering in and out and  cannoning one against another; and now and again, one  falls
and lies as he has fallen.  Before night, so many  have gone to bed or the police office, that
the streets  seem almost clearer.  And as GUISARDS and FIRST-FOOTERS  are now not much seen
except in country places, when once  the New Year has been rung in and proclaimed at the Tron
railings, the festivities begin to find their way indoors  and something like quiet returns
upon the town.  But  think, in these piled LANDS, of all the senseless  snorers, all the broken
heads and empty pockets!

