Durer always lived in a frugal manner, without the least ostentation for the distinguished
favors heaped upon him. He applied himself to his profession with the most constant and untiring
industry, which, together with his great knowledge, great facility of mechanical execution,
and a remarkable talent for imitation, enabled him to rise to such distinction, and to exert
so powerful an influence on German art for a great length of time. He was the first artist
in Germany who practiced and taught the rules of perspective, and of the proportions of the
human figure, according to mathematical principles. His treatise on proportions is said to
have resulted from his studies of his picture of Adam and Eve. His principal works are De Symmetria
partium in rectis formis humanorum corporum, printed at Nuremberg in 1532; and De Verieitate
Figurarum, et flexuris partium, et Gestibus Imaginum; 1534. These works were written in German,
and after Durer's death translated into Latin. The figures illustrating the subjects were executed
by Durer, on wood, in an admirable manner. Durer had also much merit as a miscellaneous writer,
and labored to purify and elevate the German language, in which he was assisted by his friend,
W. Pirkheimer. His works were published in a collected form at Arnheim, in 1603, folio, in
Latin and in French. J. J. Roth wrote a life of Durer, published at Leipsic in 1791.

LUDOLPH BACKHUYSEN.

This eminent painter was born in 1631. His father intended him for the mercantile profession,
but nature for a marine painter. His passion for art induced him to neglect his employer's
business, with whom his father had placed him, and to spend his time in drawing, and in frequenting
the studios of the painters at Amsterdam. His fondness for shipping led him frequently to the
port of the city, where he made admirable drawings of the vessels with a pen, which were much
sought after by the collectors, and were purchased at liberal prices. Several of his drawings
were sold at 100 florins each. This success induced him to paint marine subjects. His first
essays were successful, and his pictures universally admired. While painting, he would not
admit his most intimate friends to his studio, lest his fancy might be disturbed. He hired
fishermen to take him out to sea in the most tremendous gales, and on landing, he would run
impatiently to his palette to secure the grand impressions of the views he had just witnessed.
He has represented that element in its most terrible agitation, with a fidelity that intimidates
the beholder. His pictures on these subjects have raised his reputation even higher than that
of W. van de Velde; although the works of the later, which represent the sea at rest, or in
light breezes, are much superior, and indeed inimitable. His pictures are distinguished for
their admirable perspective, correct drawing, neatness and freedom of touch, and remarkable
facility of execution. In this fight the "Monitor" had been struck twenty-two times without appreciable
effect, the deepest indentation having been made by a shot that penetrated the iron on her
side to the depth of four inches. On the "Merrimac" ninety-seven indentations of shot were found,
twenty of which were from the 11-inch guns of the "Monitor," which had shattered six of the
top layers of her iron plates.

On the 29th of December following, the "Monitor" herself was lost,
having been foundered and sunk with sixteen of her crew, in a heavy
gale, a few miles south of Cape Hatteras.

But the test to which the "Monitor" had been subjected in her battle with the "Merrimac" proved
beyond doubt that iron was destined to take the place of wood in the construction of our men-of-war
thereafter, and the confidence of John Ericsson in the ultimate success of his experiment, after
many discouragements and rebuffs on the part of the naval authorities, was fully justified in its
final results, and the honors which the nation showered upon him in the evening of his life,
and the tribute which it paid to his genius after his death, were
merited by him quite as much as the perpetuation of his memory through
this stirring canvas of the great artist, as is also the memory, in
the second painting of this series, of that other Erickson, his ancestor,
who, almost a thousand years before, was the first white man known
to have set foot on American soil.



JOHN BAPTIST WEENIX, THE YOUNGER.

Was the son of the preceding, and born at Amsterdam in 1644. Possessing less varied talent
than his father; he was unrivaled in painting all sorts of animals, huntings, dead games, birds,
flowers, and fruit. He was appointed Court painter to the Elector Palatine, with a liberal
pension, and decorated his palace at Bernsberg with many of his choicest works. He painted
in one gallery a series of pictures representing the Hunting of the Stag; and in another the
Chase of the Wild Boar, which gained him the greatest applause. There are many of his best
works in the Dusseldorf Gallery. He painted all kinds of birds and fowls in an inimitable manner;
the soft down of the duck, the glossy plumage of the pigeon, the splendor of the peacock, the
magnificent spread of an inanimate swan producing a flood of light, and serving as a contrast
to all the objects around it, are so attractive that it is impossible to contemplate one of
his pictures of these subjects without feeling admiration and delight at the painter's skill
in rivaling nature.

JAN STEEN.

The life of this extraordinary artist, if we are to believe his biographers, is soon told.
He was born at Leyden in 1636. He early exhibited a passion for art, which his father, a wealthy
brewer of that city, endeavored to restrain, and afterwards apprehending that he could not
procure a comfortable subsistence by the exercise of his pencil, established him in his own
business at Delft, where, instead of attending to his affairs, he gave himself up to dissipation,
and soon squandered his means and ruined his establishment; his indulgent parent, after repeated
attempts to reclaim him, was compelled to abandon him to his fate. He opened a tavern, which
proved more calamitous than the former undertaking. He gave himself up entirely to reveling
and intoxication, wrought only when his necessities compelled him, and sold his pictures to
satisfy his immediate wants, and often for the most paltry prices to escape arrest.

JAN STEEN'S WORKS.

The pictures of Jan Steen usually represent merry-makings, and the frolics and festivities
of the ale-house, which he treated with a characteristic expression of humorous drollery, that
compensated for the vulgarity of his subjects. He sometimes painted interiors, domestic assemblies,
conversations, mountebanks, etc., which he generally accompanied with some facetious trait
of wit or humor, admirably rendered. Some of his works of this description are little inferior
to the charming productions of Gabriel Metzu. His compositions are ingenious and interesting,
his design is correct and spirited, his coloring chaste and clear, and his pencil free and
decided. He also had a good knowledge of the chiaro-scuro, which enabled him to give his figures
a fine relief. His works are invariably finished with care and diligence, and do not betray
any haste or infirmity of hand or head. It is evident that, from some untoward circumstance,
his works were not appreciated in his day, but after his death they rose amazingly in value,
and have continued to increase ever since,--a true test of a master's merit--till now they
are scarcely to be found except in royal and noble collections and the public galleries of
Europe. His pictures were, for a long time, scarcely known out of Holland, but now they are
deservedly placed in the choicest collections. His works are very numerous, sufficient to have
continually occupied the life time of not only a sober and industrious artist, but one possessing
great facility of hand. Smith, in his Catalogue raisonné, vol. iv. and Supplement, gives a
descriptive account of upwards of 300 genuine pictures by Steen, many of them compositions
of numerous figures, and almost all of them executed with the greatest care. It cannot be believed
that a man living in a state of continued dissipation and inebriety, could find time to produce
so many admirable works, displaying, as they do, a deep study of human nature, and a great
discrimination of character, or that the hand of a habitual drunkard could operate with such
beauty and precision. Nor is it probable that a mind besotted by drink, and debased by low
intercourse, could moralize so admirably as he has done on the evil consequences of intemperance
and the indulgence of evil passions.

KUGLER'S CRITIQUE ON THE WORKS OF JAN STEEN.

Dr Kügler, a judicious critic, thus sums up his character as an artist: "The works of Jan Steen
imply a free and cheerful view of common life, and he treats it with a careless humor, such
as seems to deal with all its daily occurrences, high and low, as a laughable masquerade and
a mere scene of perverse absurdity. His treatment of the subjects differed essentially from
that adopted by other artists. Frequently, indeed, they are the same jolly drinking parties,
or the meetings of boors; but in other masters the object is, for the most part, to depict
a certain situation, either quiet or animated, whilst in Jan Steen is generally to be found
action more or less developed, together with all the reciprocal relations and interests between
the characters which spring from it. This is accompanied by great variety and force of individual
expression, such as evinces the sharpest observation. He is almost the only artist in the Netherlands
who has thus, with true genius, brought into full play all these elements of comedy. His technical
execution suits his design; it is carefully finished, and notwithstanding the closest attention
to minute details, it is as firm and correct as it is light and free."

FROLICS OF MIERIS AND JAN STEEN.

Sandrart says that Mieris had a real friendship for Jan Steen, and delighted in his company,
though he was by no means fond of drinking as freely as Jan was accustomed to do every evening
at the tavern. Notwithstanding this, he often passed whole nights with his friend in a joyous
manner, and frequently returned very late to his lodging. One evening, when it was very dark
and almost midnight, as Mieris strolled home from the tavern, he unluckily fell into the common
sewer, which had been opened for the purpose of cleansing, and the workmen had left unguarded.
There he must have perished, had not a cobbler and his wife, who worked in a neighboring stall,
heard his cries and instantly ran to his relief. Having extricated Mieris, they took all possible
care of him, and procured the best refreshment in their power. The next morning Mieris, having
thanked his preservers, took his leave, but particularly remarked the house, that he might
know it another time. The poor people were totally ignorant of the person whom they had relieved,
but Mieris had too grateful a heart to forget his benefactors, and having painted a picture
in his best manner, he brought it to the cobbler and his wife, telling them it was a present
from the person whose life they had contributed to save, and desired them to carry it to his
friend Cornelius Plaats, who would give them the full value for it. The woman, unacquainted
with the real worth of the present, concluded she might receive a moderate gratuity for the
picture, but her astonishment was inexpressible, when she received the sum of eight hundred
florins.

SIR ANTHONY MORE.

This eminent painter was born at Utrecht, in 1519. In 1552, he accompanied the Cardinal Granville
to Spain, who recommended him to the patronage of the Emperor Charles V., whose portrait he
painted, and that of Prince Philip, which gave so much satisfaction to the monarch, that he
sent him to Portugal, to paint the portraits of King John III., Catherine of Austria his Queen,
and sister to Charles, and that of their daughter, the Princess Donna Maria, then contracted
to Philip; he also painted the portrait of Donna Catalina, Charles' younger sister; all of
which gave entire satisfaction, and the artist was munificently rewarded, and the honor of
knighthood conferred on him. The Emperor next despatched More to England to take the portrait
of the princess Mary previous to her marriage with Philip of Spain. On this occasion, he is
said to have employed all the flattering aids of his art, and so captivated the courtiers of
Spain, with the charms of Mary's person, that he was employed by Cardinal Granville and several
of the grandees to make copies of it for them. He accompanied Philip to England, where he remained
till the death of Queen Mary, who highly honored him, presented him a gold chain, and allowed
him a pension of £100 a year. The Emperor Charles V. having abdicated in favor of his son Philip
II., the latter returned to Spain, and made More his court-painter, where his talents procured
him great respect and abundant employment.

SIR ANTHONY MORE AND PHILIP II.

Philip II. was accustomed to honor More by frequent visits to his studio, on which occasions
he treated him with extraordinary familiarity. One day, in a moment of condescension and admiration,
the monarch jocosely slapped More on the shoulder which compliment the painter, in an unguarded
moment, playfully returned by smearing his hand with a little carmine from his brush. The King
withdrew his hand and surveyed it for a moment, seriously; the courtiers were petrified with
horror and amazement; the hand to which ladies knelt before they had the honor to kiss it,
had never before been so dishonored since the foundation of the monarchy; at that moment the
fate of More was balanced on a hair; he saw his rashness, fell on his knees, kissed the King's
feet, and humbly begged pardon for the offence. Philip smiled, and pardoned him, and all seemed
to be well again; but the person of the King was too sacred in those days, and the act too
daring to escape the notice of the Inquisition, from whose bigotry and vengeance the King himself
could not have shielded him. Happily for More, one of Philip's ministers advised him of his
danger, and without loss of time he set out for Brussels, upon the feigned pretence of pressing
engagements, nor could Philip ever induce him to return to his court.

MORE'S SUCCESS AND WORKS.

More was employed by most of the princes of Europe, who liberally rewarded him, and at every
court his paintings were beheld with admiration and applause, but at none more than at those
of Spain and England. He acquired an ample fortune. When he was in Portugal, the nobility of
that country, in token of their esteem, presented him, in the name of their order, a gold chain
valued at a thousand ducats. He closely imitated nature. He designed and painted in a bold,
masculine style, with a rich tone of coloring; he showed a good knowledge of the chiaro-scuro,
and he finished his pictures with neatness and care; his style is said to resemble that of
Hans Holbein, though not possessing his delicacy and clearness; and there is something dry
and hard in his manner. His talents were not confined to portraits; he painted several historical
subjects in Spain for the Royal Collection, which were highly applauded, but which were unfortunately
destroyed in the conflagration of the palace of the Prado. While he resided in Spain, he copied
some portraits of illustrious women, in a style said to approach Titian. His own portrait,
painted by himself, charmingly colored, and full of life and nature, is in the Florentine Gallery.
His best work was a picture of the Circumcision, intended for the Cathedral at Antwerp, but
he did not live to finish it, and died there in 1575.

PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF A PAINTER.

John Griffier, a Dutch painter of celebrity, went to London in 1667, where he met with great
encouragement. While there he painted many views on the Thames, and in order to observe nature
more attentively, he bought a yacht, embarked his family, and spent his whole time on the river.
After several years he sailed for Holland in his frail craft but was wrecked in the Texel,
where, after eight days of suffering, he and his family barely escaped with their lives, having
lost all his paintings, and the fruits of his industry. This mishap cured him of his passion
for the sea.

ANECDOTE OF JOHN DE MABUSE.

An amusing anecdote is related of this eminent painter. He was inordinately given to dissipation,
and spent all his money, as fast as he earned it, in carousing with his boon companions. He
was for a long time in the service of the Marquess de Veren, for whom he executed some of his
most capital works. It happened on one occasion that the Emperor Charles V. made a visit to
the Marquess, who made magnificent preparations for his reception, and among other things ordered
all his household to be dressed in white damask. When the tailor came to measure Mabuse, he
desired to have the damask, under the pretence of inventing a singular habit. He sold it immediately,
spent the money, and then painted a paper suit, so like damask that it was not distinguished
as he walked in procession between a philosopher and a poet, other pensioners of the Marquess;
but the joke was too good to be kept, so his friends betrayed him to the Marquess, who, instead
of being displeased was highly diverted, and asked the Emperor which of the three suits he
liked best. The Emperor pointed to that of Mabuse, as excelling in whiteness and beauty of
the flowers; and when he was told of the painter's stratagem, he would not believe it, till
he had examined it with his own hands.

CAPUGNANO AND LIONELLO SPADA. 

Lieutenant Worden was the hero of the occasion in the rapidity of his man[oe]uvring, while
Lieutenant Jones, now in command of the "Merrimac," was surprised to find that his shot made
no impression on the "Monitor." After more than two hours of incessant fighting, Lieutenant
Worden having been temporarily blinded through the powder from an exploding shell which struck
a sight-hole in the pilot-house of the "Monitor," through which he was watching the enemy,
its command devolved upon Lieutenant Greene. Next, he attempted landscape in water-colors, in which
were exhibited the most strange proportions; of houses less than the men; these last smaller
than his sheep; and the sheep again than his birds. Extolled, however, in his own district,
he determined to leave his native mountains, and figure on a wider theatre at Bologna; there
he opened his house, and requested the Caracci, the only artists he believed to be more learned
than himself, to furnish him with a pupil, whom he intended to polish in his studio. Lionello
Spada, an admirable wit, accepted this invitation; he went and copied designs, affecting the
utmost obsequiousness towards his master. At length, conceiving it time to put an end to the
jest, he left behind him a most exquisite painting of Lucretia, and over the entrance of the
chamber some fine satirical octaves, in apparent praise, but real ridicule of Capugnano. His
worthy master only accused Lionello of ingratitude, for having acquired from him in so short
a space the art of painting so beautifully from his designs; but the Caracci at last acquainted
him with the joke, which acted as a complete antidote to his folly."

MICHAEL ANGELO DA CARAVAGGIO--HIS QUARRELSOME DISPOSITION.

Caravaggio possessed a very irascible and roving disposition. At the height of his popularity
at Rome, he got into a quarrel with one of his own young friends, in a tennis-court, and struck
him dead with a racket, having been severely wounded himself in the affray. He fled to Naples,
where he executed some of his finest pictures, but he soon got weary of his residence there,
and went to Malta. Here his superb picture of the Grand Master obtained for him the Cross of
Malta, a rich gold chain, placed on his neck by the Grand Master's own hands, and two slaves
to attend him. All these honors did not prevent the new knight from falling back into old habits.
"Il suo torbido ingegno," says Bellori, plunged him into new difficulties; he fought and wounded
a noble cavalier, was thrown into prison, from which he escaped almost by a miracle, and fled
to Syracuse, where he obtained the favor of the Syracusans by painting a splendid picture of
the Santa Morte, for the church of S. Lucia. In apprehension of being taken by the Knights
of Malta, he soon fled to Messina, thence to Palermo, and returned to Naples, where hopes were
held out to him of the Pope's pardon. Here he got into a quarrel with some military men in
a public house, was wounded, and took refuge on board a felucca, about to sail for Rome. Stopping
at a small port on the way, he was arrested by a Spanish guard, by mistake, for another person;
when released, he found the felucca gone, and in it all his property. Traversing the burning
shore, under an almost vertical sun, he was seized with a brain fever, and continued to wander
through the Pontine Marshes till he arrived at Porto Ercoli, when he expired, aged forty years.

JACOPO AMICONI.

Giacomo Amiconi, a Venetian painter, went to England, in 1729, where he was first employed
by Lord Tankerville to paint the staircase of his palace in St. James' Square. He there represented
the stories of Achilles, Telemachus and Tiresias, which gained him great applause. When he
was to be paid, he produced his bills of the workmen for scaffolding, materials, &c., amounting
to £90, and asked no more, saying that he was content with the opportunity of showing what
he could do. The peer, however, gave him £200 more. This brought him into notice, and he was
much employed by the nobility to decorate their houses.

PAINTING THE DEAD.

Giovanni Baptista Gaulli, called Baciccio, one of the most eminent Genoese painters, was no
less celebrated for portraits than for history. Pascoli says he painted no less than seven
different Pontiffs, besides many illustrious personages. Possessing great colloquial powers,
he engaged his sitters in the most animated conversation, and thus transferred their features
to his canvas, so full of life and expression, that they looked as though they were about to
speak to the beholder. He also had a remarkable talent of painting the dead, so as to obtain
an exact resemblance of deceased persons whom he had never seen. For this purpose, he drew
a face at random, afterwards altering it in every feature, by the advice and under the inspection
of those who had known the original, till he had improved it to a striking likeness.

TADDEO ZUCCARO.

This eminent painter was born at San Angiolo, in the Duchy of Urbino, in 1529. That the United States
Navy should take so deep an interest in paying the last honors to John Ericsson, with an Admiral
of the Navy, Daniel L. Braine, superintending the ceremonies, and a future Admiral, Winfield Scott
Schley, commanding the funeral convoy, is not surprising, for to Ericsson it owed not only the bomb-proof
floating fortresses of the ocean, but the screw propeller, first applied in the construction
of the United States man-of-war "Princeton," with propelling machinery under the water line
out of the reach of shot. Undaunted by difficulties that would have driven
a less devoted lover of the art from the field, he pursued his studies with undiminished ardor,
till his talents and industry attracted the notice of Daniello da Por, an artist then in repute,
who generously relieved his wants and gave him instruction. From that time he made rapid progress,
and soon acquired a distinguished reputation, but he died at Rome in 1566, in the prime of life.

ZUCCARO'S RESENTMENT.

Federigo Zuccaro, the brother of Taddeo, was employed by Pope Gregory XIII. in the Pauline
chapel. While proceeding with his work, however, he fell out with some of the Pope's officers;
and conceiving himself treated with indignity, he painted an allegorical picture of Calumny,
introducing the portraits of all those individuals who had offended him, decorated with asses'
ears. This he caused to be exhibited publicly over the gate of St. Luke's church, on the festival
day of that Saint. His enemies, upon this, made such complaints that he was forced to fly from
Rome, and passing into France, he visited Flanders and England. As soon as the pontiff was
appeased, he returned to Rome, and completed his work in the Pauline chapel, fortunate in not
losing his head as the price of such a daring exploit.

ROYAL CRITICISM.

Federigo Zuccaro was invited to Madrid by Philip II. to execute some frescos in the lower cloister
of the Escurial, which, failing to give satisfaction to his royal patron, were subsequently
effaced, and their place supplied by Pellegrino Tibaldi; the king nevertheless munificently
rewarded him. One day, as he was displaying a picture of the Nativity, which he had painted
for the great altar of the Escurial, for the inspection of the monarch, he said, "Sire, you
now behold all that art can execute; beyond this which I have done, the powers of painting
cannot go." The king was silent for some time; his countenance betrayed neither approbation
nor contempt; at last, preserving the same indifference, he quietly asked the painter what
those things were in the basket of one of the shepherds in the act of running? He replied they
were eggs. "It is well then, that he did not break them," said the king, as he turned on his
way--a just rebuke for such fulsome self-adulation.

PIETRO DA CORTONA.

