One day there was a conversazione at which Alcott, the "Oracle of Concord," was to be the chief
personage, and, as he had the habit of monopolizing the talk when he took any part, it was
suggested that I should try my strength against his. Although Emerson had a high opinion of
Alcott, he seemed to me a shallow and illogical thinker, and I have always felt that the good
opinion of Emerson was due rather to the fact that Alcott presented him with his own ideas
served up in forms in which he no longer recognized them, and so appeared to Emerson as original.
Such originality as he had was rather in oracular and often incomprehensible verbiage than
in profundity of thought, but, as no one attempted to bring him to book, bewildered as his
audience generally was by the novelty of the propositions he made or by their absurdity, he
used to go on until suggestion, or breath, failed him. I have forgotten, long ago, the subject
of debate, but Alcott started out with one of his characteristic mysticisms, and, after allowing
him to commit himself fully, I interrupted him with a question. He was a little irritated at
being stopped in the flow of his discourse, and showed it, but this did not disturb me, and
I insisted on an explanation of what he had said. He was not in the habit of explaining himself,
and replied very much at random, but the training of old Dr. Nott stood me in good stead, and
I followed him up with question and objection until he assumed a position diametrically opposed
to that from which he started, when I called his attention to the fact that what he then said
contradicted what he had at first said. He got angry, and replied that "a man was not bound
to be consistent with himself, and that it did not matter." But he lost his thread as well
as his temper, and the conversazione came to a premature end, to the great satisfaction of
the conspirators, most of whom had at one time or another been silenced in their attempts to
bring him to logical conclusions, by his autocratic way of carrying on the debate without regard
to objections, which they had not had the courage to urge.

He seemed to me a shallow philosopher, but I must confess that my treatment of him did not
become a man so much younger than he. I felt, however, a certain amount of honest indignation
at what seemed to me his charlatanic manner of putting off on people his random and improvised
suggestions regarding questions which seemed to me then of vital importance to society. It
is easy now to see that I was in the stage of mental evolution at which detail is of supreme
importance because large views of life and philosophy have not yet come above the horizon.
Alcott was a drawing-room philosopher, the justice of whose lucubrations had no importance
whatever, while his manner and his individuality gave to wiser people than I the pleasure which
belongs to the study of such a specimen of human nature. He amused and superficially interested,
and he no doubt enjoyed his distorted reflections of the wisdom of wiser men as much as if
he had been an original seeker. I did not then understand that all knowledge is relative, and
that, au fond, his offense was the same as mine, that of thinking he had arrived at finality
in the discovery of truth.

It was, perhaps, a natural consequence of all this talking and writing about art that, in the
absence of a periodical devoted to it, my friends came to the conclusion that it would be a
good and useful thing that I should start an art journal. I had read with enthusiasm "Modern
Painters," and absorbed the views of Ruskin in large draughts, and enjoyed large intercourse
with European masters, and with Americans like William Page, H.K. Brown, S.W. Rowse, and H.P.
Gray, all thinkers and artists of distinct eminence. In this school I had acquired certain
views of the nature of art which I burned to disseminate. They were crude rather than incorrect,
but they were largely responded to by our public; they were destructive of the old rather than
informing of the new, and leaned on nature rather than art. The art-loving public was full
of Ruskinian enthusiasm, and what strength I had shown was in that vein. The overweening self-confidence
that always carried me into dangers and difficulties which a little wisdom would have taught
me to avoid, made me too ready to enter into a scheme which required far more ability and knowledge
of business than I possessed. All my artist friends promised me their assistance, and I found
in John Durand, the son of the president of the National Academy of Design, a partner with
a seconding enthusiasm and the necessary assistance in raising the capital. This amounted to
$5000, for the half of which my brother Thomas became security. We doubted not that the undertaking
would be a lucrative one, and one of the principal motives which was urged on me by my artistic
friends and promising supporters was that it would furnish me with a sufficient income to enable
me to follow my painting without any anxiety as to my means of living. We started a weekly
called "The Crayon," and at the outset I was able to promise the assistance of most of our
best writers residing in New York.

In order to secure the support of the Bostonians I went to Boston and Cambridge, where I was
met by a cordial response to my enthusiasm, Lowell becoming my sponsor to the circle of which
he was then and for many years the most brilliant ornament. To him and his friendship in after
years I owe to a very large degree the shaping of my later life, as well as the better part
of the success of "The Crayon." He was then in a condition of profound melancholy, from the
recent death of his wife. He lived in retirement, seeing only his most intimate friends, and
why he should have made an exception in my case I do not quite understand. It may be that I
had a card of introduction from his great friend William Page or from C.F. Briggs (in the literary
world, "Harry Franco"), but if so it would have been merely a formal introduction, as my acquaintance
with either of those gentlemen was very slight, and I do not remember an introduction at all.
My impression is that I introduced myself. But I was an enthusiast, fired with the idea of
an apostolate of art, largely vicarious and due to Ruskin, who was then my prophet, and whose
religion, as mine, was nature. In fact, I was still so much under the influence of the "Modern
Painters" that, like Ruskin, I accepted art as something in the peculiar vision of the artist,
not yet recognizing that it is the brain that sees and not the eye. But there is this which
makes the nature-worshiper's creed a more exalting one than that of the art-lover, that it
is impersonal and compels the forgetting of one's self, which for an apostolate is essential.

It was probably this characteristic of my condition which enlisted the sympathy of Lowell,
who, even in his desolation, had a heart for any form of devotion, and who, with the love of
nature which was one of his own most marked traits, had a side to which my enthusiasm appealed
directly. The mere artist is, unless his nature is a radically religious one, an egotist, and
his art necessarily centres on him, nature only furnishing him with material. I was dreaming
of other things than myself or that which was personal in my enterprise, and Lowell felt the
glow of my enthusiasm. He introduced me to Longfellow, Charles Eliot Norton, R.H. Dana, and
other of his friends at Cambridge, and at a later visit to Agassiz, Emerson, Thomas G. Appleton
(Longfellow's brother-in-law), Whittier, E.P. Whipple, Charles Sumner, and Samuel G. Ward,
banker and a lover of art of high intelligence, the friend of poets and painters, and to me,
in later years, one of the kindest and wisest of advisers and friends.

Lowell invited me to the dinner of the Saturday Club,--a monthly gathering of whatever in the
sphere of New England thought was most eminent and brilliant,--and here I came, for the first
time, into contact with the true New England. In the afternoon, instead of the apology to the emperor. The Emperor
sat on the throne under a golden sky, surrounded by his Spanish, Italian, Dutch and German great.
The Landgrave Philip knelt in black velvet dress with faint red tie and be sad reading on the
rug before the throne, and behind him faithful chancellor of Günterode Tielemann before the apology.
He read with pitiful gestures and in mournful tone, on the face of Duke showed a smile, it was
perhaps the unconscious help of his easy nature against the feeling of shame. But the solemn
Kaiser slowly raised the finger and said in his Brabant dialect: "Wait, ik Wöll laken teaching
you. "After the Imperial Vice-Chancellor read the answer of the emperor, Günterode had then
thanked politely, expected the Landgrave of Emperor Wink to rise. This hint was not. Now stand
on the Landgrave of himself and wanted the emperor Shake hands. The Imperial Majesty, however,
saw angry and held her hand. But seized Alba the hand of the Landgrave, and invited him and
the other princes to dinner at a. Alba had his Losament in the lock. When the cloth was removed,
played the Brett Landgraf with one of the Saxon councilors, it was ten clock over, since he
announced Alba at one time, that he was his prisoner. At the same time one hundred Spanish arquebusiers
entered the room. The two electors who had vouched for the freedom of Duke were beside themselves;
Joachim of Brandenburg, called the piece was a bad guy, drew his sword to Alba's skull to
split, but Moritz was deeply affected and remained with his father in the all night. He assured
him that there must be a misunderstanding, and he will speak to the Emperor. This was done. The
Emperor said to him, the Landgrave of had shown mercy, it is neither speech nor writing it was
that he was with wanted to spare "some" prisoners, only with "eternal" captivity have one spare
him want. And so also the version found in the Notel, the undersigned electors in the morning
had without them closer to inspect.

This Spanish fraud produced a great transformation in the heart of Maurice's. He saw now well that the
Emperor Charles went out on making Germany Spanish, from that of
Appraisals and foreign troops crushed kingdom all to conduct water
to a mill, and it woke him in the German.

Without his bold and daring hidden running resistance would be the future free development
in northern Germany have been impossible, and if not today throughout Germany shows an Austrian
face, so it is perhaps in the last analysis the likelihood of that little word "agree" and
"give thanks for ever."

First, of course, had to wait Moritz. On the one hand, he feared that the Emperor could his
threat true to make and send the Landgrave to Spain.

On the other hand, he had to expect that the allerdurchlauchtigste, all powerful and invincible
Emperor, a title that Karl now with a terrible reality, led to the Elector Johann Friedrich again
the freedom grant, which would break out in the country itself strife and war. He was now in
a sling. The revenge had to be postponed.

He tried his luck from now on in the adjustment.

 It had a considerable public, sympathetic with
its sentimental vein, readers of Ruskin and lovers of pure nature,--a circle the larger, perhaps,
for the incomplete state of art education in our community. That two young men, without any
experience in journalism, and with little in literature, should have secured the success for
their enterprise which "The Crayon" indisputably did enjoy was a surprise to the public, and,
looking at it now, with my eyes cooled by the distance of more than forty years, I am myself
surprised. That "The Crayon" had a real vitality, in spite of its relative juvenility, was
shown by the warm commendation it received from Lowell, Bryant, and other American literati,
and from Ruskin, who wrote us occasional notes in reply to questions put by the readers, and
warmly applauded its tone. Mantz was our French correspondent, and William Rossetti our English,
and a few of the artists sent us communications which had the value of the personal artistic
tone. But I learned the meaning of the fable of "The Lark and her Young," for the general assistance
in the matter of contributions, promised me by the friends who had originally urged me to the
undertaking, was very slow in coming, and, for the first numbers, I wrote nearly the whole
of the original matter, and for some time more than half of it. I wrote not only the editorial
articles and the criticisms, but essays, correspondence, poetry, book notices (really reading
every book I noticed), and a page or two of "Sketchings," in which were notes from nature,
extracts from letters, and replies to queries of the readers.

I remained in the city all the burning summer, taking a ten days' run in the Adirondacks in
September. I kept office all day, received all who came to talk art or business, and did most
of my writing at night,--not a régime to keep up one's working powers. Durand did some excellent
translations from the French, and the late Justin Winsor sent us many translations, both of
verse and prose, from the German, as well as original poetry. Aldrich was a generous contributor.
Whittier, Bayard Taylor, and others of the lyric race sent occasional contributions, and amongst
the women, who were, as a rule, our most enthusiastic supporters, were Mrs. Sigourney, and,
not the least by far, Lucy Larcom, the truest poetess of that day in America, who gave us some
of her most charming poems. She was teacher in a girls' school somewhere in Massachusetts,
and I went to see her in one of my editorial trips. We went out for a walk in the fields, she
and her class and myself, and they looked up to me as if I were Apollo and they the Muses;
and we went afield in many things. Henry James, the father of the novelist, was also a not
infrequent contributor; and, amongst the artists, Huntington, President Durand (the father
of my associate), Horatio Greenough, and William Page appeared in our pages, with many more,
whose names a file of "The Crayon" would recall.

During the year, Lowell received the appointment of Professor of Modern Languages at Harvard,
and on the eve of his sailing from New York we gave him a dinner, to which, besides some of
his old friends, such as E.P. Whipple and Senator Charles Sumner, I invited Bryant and Bayard
Taylor. I knew that Bryant held a little bitterness against Lowell for the passage in the "Fable
for Critics," in which he said:--

  "If he stir you at all, it is just, on my soul,
  Like being stirred up with the very North Pole;"

and I told Lowell how the dear old poet felt, and then put them together at the table. Lowell
laid himself out to captivate Bryant, and did so completely, for his tact was such that in
society no one whom he desired to interest could resist him; and our dinner was a splendid
success. Of all present at it only Durand and myself are now living.

The subscription list of our paper had risen in the first month to above 1200, and the promise
for the future seemed brilliant. But, unfortunately, neither of us understood the business
part of journalism, or that a paper does not live by its circulation, but by advertisements;
and that our advertisements, being a specialty, must be canvassed for vigorously. We did not
canvass. Cunning publishers persuaded us that it would be a good thing to take their advertisements
for nothing, so as to persuade the others that we had a good advertising list. But the bait
never took, and we never got the paying list, and the printer, being interested in our expenditure,
never helped us to economize, but played the "Wicked Uncle" to our "Babes in the Wood," and
so we wasted our substance. It was, perhaps, fortunate that the funds ran short as they did,
for our five thousand dollars could not go far when the subscriptions were all paid in and
spent, and the overwork began to tell on me fatally. With the conclusion of the third volume
I broke down and had to give up work entirely.

When I got out of harness, and had no longer the stimulus of the daily demand and habit of
work, the collapse was such that I thought I was dying. I gave my share of the paper to Durand,
to do as he pleased with, and went off to North Conway, in the mountains of New Hampshire,
to paint one more picture before I died. I chose a brook scene, and Huntington and Hubbard--two
of our leading painters--and a Düsseldorf-educated painter, by name Post, sat down with me
to paint it. I gave six weeks of hard work to a canvas twelve by eighteen inches, and my competitors
cordially admitted my victory. Autumn fell on my work with still something to do to it, and
it was never finished to my entire satisfaction, but it was one of the successes of the year
at the Academy Exhibition. I stayed late amongst the mountains, only thinking of dying, but
nature brought me round. There came, towards the end of the season, a newly married couple
from Boston, destined in later years to become a large part of my life,--Dr. and Mrs. Amos
Binney. Mrs. Binney was one of the earliest women graduates in medicine in America,--an earnest,
true woman, whose ministrations to me in body and mind, in those months of dying hopes, flying
leaves, and early snowfalls, were full of healing. I had had a skirmish with Cupid that summer,
my first real passion, reciprocated by the subject of it, one of the ardent readers of "The
Crayon," an enthusiast in art, and like me in Ruskin--an affair which ended in our double defeat
under the merciless veto of the mother of my flame. In that affair Mrs. Binney's tact and knowledge
of human nature befriended me profoundly, and were the origin of a cordial intimacy which incidentally
had on my subsequent life a great influence. Dr. Binney gave me a commission for two pictures,
and invited me to come to his home near Boston to paint them.

CHAPTER XII

CAMBRIDGE

I gave up my studio in New York and went to Boston, and, my commissions executed, moved from
there to Cambridge, where I made my home, returning thenceforward to the Adirondacks in the
late summer and autumn of every year while I remained in America. The following springtime
I spent making studies in that classic neighborhood, especially in a favorite haunt of Lowell's,--the
"Waverley Oaks,"--a curious group of large white oaks, which had taken root some hundreds of
years ago on the foot of a moraine of one of the offsets of the great glacier which, countless
thousands of years ago, had covered New England. They were beautiful trees and greatly beloved
by Lowell, for whom I painted the principal group, with Beaver Brook, another of his favorite
studies, and he lying by its bank in the foreground, a little full-length portrait, not the
length of my finger. I painted also a similar portrait of Longfellow, under the most beautiful
of the oaks, on an eight-by-ten-inch canvas. It was a good portrait, but Lowell deterred me
from finishing it as I wished, saying that if I touched it again I should destroy the likeness.
I am half inclined to think that his insistence was mainly intended to abbreviate the martyrdom
of Longfellow, whom I conducted every day to the Oaks, to insure pre-Raphaelite fidelity, making
him sit on a huge boulder under the tree and even forgetting to carry a cushion for him, so
that he sat on the bare stone until at last the discomfort was evident to me, when I folded
my coat to cushion his stone seat. So kindly was his nature that he had submitted to the inconvenience
with the docility and delicacy of a child, without a sign of impatience.

This absolute unselfishness and extreme consideration for others was characteristic of the
man. I saw much of him in the years following, and found in him the most exquisitely refined
and gentle nature I have ever known,--one to which a brutal or inconsiderate act was positive
pain, and any aggression on the least creature, cause of intense indignation. My recollection
of his condescension to my demands on his time and physical comfort remain in my memory as
the highest expression of his social beneficence. Longfellow was not expansive, nor do I remember
his ever becoming enthusiastic over anything or anybody. One who knew nothing of his domestic
life might have fancied that he was cold, and certainly he did not possess that social magnetism
which made Lowell the loadstone of so many hearts, and made the exercise of that attraction
necessary to his own enjoyment of existence. Longfellow adored his wife and children; but beyond
that circle, it seemed to me, he had no imperious longing to know or be known. He had likes
and dislikes; but so far as I understood him, no strong antipathies or ardent friendships.
He had warm friendships for Lowell, the Nortons, and Agassiz, for example, but I think he had
but a mild regard for Emerson, and I remember his saying one day that Emerson used his friends
like lemons,--squeezing them till they were dry, and then throwing them away. This showed that
he misunderstood Emerson, but perhaps intelligibly, for Longfellow had few of those qualities
which interested Emerson, and there could not have been much in common to both. Emerson liked
men who gave him problems to solve,--something to learn,--while Longfellow was transparent,
limpid as a clear spring reflecting the sky and showing all that was in its depths; and to
Emerson he offered no problem. I never saw him angry but once, and that was at his next-door
neighbor shooting at a robin in a cherry-tree that stood near the boundary between the two
gardens. The small shot carried over and rattled about us where we sat on the verandah of the
old Washington house, but showed the avicidal intent, and Longfellow went off at once to protest
against the barbarity, not at all indignant at the personal danger, if he thought of any.

His adoration of his wife was fully justified, for rarely have I seen a woman in whom a Juno-like
dignity and serenity were so wedded to personal beauty and to the fine culture of brain and
heart, which commanded reverence from the most ordinary acquaintance, as in her. No one who
had seen her at home could ever forget the splendid vision, and the last time I ever saw her,
so far as I remember, was in summer time, when she and her two daughters, all in white muslin,
like creatures of another world, evanescent, translucent, stood in the doorway to say good-by
to me. In the same costume, a little later, she met death. She was making impressions in sealing-wax,
to amuse her daughters, when a flaming drop fell on the inflammable stuff, and in an instant
she was in flames, burned to death before help could come. It was then that they found that
Longfellow was not the cold man they had generally believed him. He never recovered from the
bereavement, and shortly after he became a Spiritualist, and, until he in his glad turn passed
the gates of death, he lived in what he knew to be the light of her presence. And certainly
if such a thing as communion across that grim threshold can be, this was the occasion which
made it possible. There was something angelic about them both, even in this life,--a natural
innocence and large beneficence and equanimity which, in the chance and contradiction of life,
could rarely be found in wedded state.

One of the most notable personages of that little world, whom I knew in connection with Longfellow,
was his brother-in-law,--Thomas G. Appleton,--a most distinguished amateur of art; a subtle,
if sometimes vagarious, critic, poet, and thinker: the wit to whom most of the clever things
said in Boston came naturally in time to be attributed. He falls over and sleeps. Horrified, he runs in the morning from sleep - whether the prisoners
are not escaped? He looks after, believe his eyes: there are 120 more than in the evening were.
They have been sneaking out of prison camp and can capture. His,
too, was a kindly nature, and many a rising artist found his way to a larger recognition by
Appleton's unobtrusive aid. He, like Longfellow, was a sincere Spiritualist. One of the most
remarkable of this group of men was Professor Peirce, mathematician, of whose flights into
the higher regions of the science of numbers and quantities many interesting things were told.
He had written a book to show, if I remember right after so many years, that the square root
of minus one was a right angle

  (\/-1=90°),

which was said to have been read only by a mathematician who presided over an observatory in
the Ural Mountains. He had an extraordinary power of making his abstruse results clear to the
ordinary intellect, and was in various directions a brilliant conversationalist. One day, going
into Boston in the omnibus with him, I questioned him as to the famous problem. To my astonishment
he went through a demonstration adapted to my intelligence which made me understand the nature
of the substitution and the solution before our half hour's transit was ended. I did not understand
the mathematical statement, but he put it in common-sense terms, which I apprehended perfectly,
though I never could repeat them.

