A new road leads from Pont de Montvert to Florac by the valley of the Tarn; a smooth sandy
ledge, it runs about half-way between the summit of the cliffs and the river in the bottom
of the valley; and I went in and out, as I followed it, from bays of shadow into promontories
of afternoon sun.  This was a pass like that of Killiecrankie; a deep turning gully in the
hills, with the Tarn making a wonderful hoarse uproar far below, and craggy summits standing
in the sunshine high above.  A thin fringe of ash- trees ran about the hill-tops, like ivy
on a ruin; but on the lower slopes, and far up every glen, the Spanish chestnut-trees stood
each four- square to heaven under its tented foliage.  Some were planted, each on its own terrace
no larger than a bed; some, trusting in their roots, found strength to grow and prosper and
be straight and large upon the rapid slopes of the valley; others, where there was a margin
to the river, stood marshalled in a line and mighty like cedars of Lebanon. The apparent lengthening
of reflections in water is owing to the surface being broken by wavelets, which, leaping up
near to us, catch some of the image of the tree, or whatever it is, that it is reflected.

In this view of an arch (Fig. 290) note that the reflection is obtained by dropping perpendiculars
from certain points on the arch, 1, 0, 2, &c., to the surface of the reflecting plane, and then
measuring the same lengths downwards to corresponding points, 1,
0, 2, &c., in the reflection.

I wish I could convey a notion of the growth of these noble trees; of how they strike out boughs
like the oak, and trail sprays of drooping foliage like the willow; of how they stand on upright
fluted columns like the pillars of a church; or like the olive, from the most shattered bole
can put out smooth and youthful shoots, and begin a new life upon the ruins of the old.  Thus
they partake of the nature of many different trees; and even their prickly top-knots, seen
near at hand against the sky, have a certain palm-like air that impresses the imagination.
But their individuality, although compounded of so many elements, is but the richer and the
more original.  And to look down upon a level filled with these knolls of foliage, or to see
a clan of old unconquerable chestnuts cluster 'like herded elephants' upon the spur of a mountain,
is to rise to higher thoughts of the powers that are in Nature.

Between Modestine's laggard humour and the beauty of the scene, we made little progress all
that afternoon; and at last finding the sun, although still far from setting, was already beginning
to desert the narrow valley of the Tarn, I began to cast about for a place to camp in.  This
was not easy to find; the terraces were too narrow, and the ground, where it was unterraced,
was usually too steep for a man to lie upon.  I should have slipped all night, and awakened
towards morning with my feet or my head in the river.

After perhaps a mile, I saw, some sixty feet above the road, a little plateau large enough
to hold my sack, and securely parapeted by the trunk of an aged and enormous chestnut.  Thither,
with infinite trouble, I goaded and kicked the reluctant Modestine, and there I hastened to
unload her.  There was only room for myself upon the plateau, and I had to go nearly as high
again before I found so much as standing-room for the ass. It was on a heap of rolling stones,
on an artificial terrace, certainly not five feet square in all.  Here I tied her to a chestnut,
and having given her corn and bread and made a pile of chestnut-leaves, of which I found her
greedy, I descended once more to my own encampment.

The position was unpleasantly exposed.  One or two carts went by upon the road; and as long
as daylight lasted I concealed myself, for all the world like a hunted Camisard, behind my
fortification of vast chestnut trunk; for I was passionately afraid of discovery and the visit
of jocular persons in the night.  Moreover, I saw that I must be early awake; for these chestnut
gardens had been the scene of industry no further gone than on the day before.  The slope was
strewn with lopped branches, and here and there a great package of leaves was propped against
a trunk; for even the leaves are serviceable, and the peasants use them in winter by way of
fodder for their animals.  I picked a meal in fear and trembling, half lying down to hide myself
from the road; and I daresay I was as much concerned as if I had been a scout from Joani's
band above upon the Lozere, or from Salomon's across the Tarn, in the old times of psalm-singing
and blood.  Or, indeed, perhaps more; for the Camisards had a remarkable confidence in God;
and a tale comes back into my memory of how the Count of Gevaudan, riding with a party of dragoons
and a notary at his saddlebow to enforce the oath of fidelity in all the country hamlets, entered
a valley in the woods, and found Cavalier and his men at dinner, gaily seated on the grass,
and their hats crowned with box-tree garlands, while fifteen women washed their linen in the
stream. Such was a field festival in 1703; at that date Antony Watteau would be painting similar
subjects.

This was a very different camp from that of the night before in the cool and silent pine-woods.
It was warm and even stifling in the valley.  The shrill song of frogs, like the tremolo note
of a whistle with a pea in it, rang up from the river-side before the sun was down.  In the
growing dusk, faint rustlings began to run to and fro among the fallen leaves; from time to
time a faint chirping or cheeping noise would fall upon my ear; and from time to time I thought
I could see the movement of something swift and indistinct between the chestnuts.  A profusion
of large ants swarmed upon the ground; bats whisked by, and mosquitoes droned overhead.  The
long boughs with their bunches of leaves hung against the sky like garlands; and those immediately
above and around me had somewhat the air of a trellis which should have been wrecked and half
overthrown in a gale of wind.

Sleep for a long time fled my eyelids; and just as I was beginning to feel quiet stealing over
my limbs, and settling densely on my mind, a noise at my head startled me broad awake again,
and, I will frankly confess it, brought my heart into my mouth.

It was such a noise as a person would make scratching loudly with a finger-nail; it came from
under the knapsack which served me for a pillow, and it was thrice repeated before I had time
to sit up and turn about.  Nothing was to be seen, nothing more was to be heard, but a few
of these mysterious rustlings far and near, and the ceaseless accompaniment of the river and
the frogs.  I learned next day that the chestnut gardens are infested by rats; rustling, chirping,
and scraping were probably all due to these; but the puzzle, for the moment, was insoluble,
and I had to compose myself for sleep, as best I could, in wondering uncertainty about my neighbours.

I was wakened in the grey of the morning (Monday, 30th September) by the sound of foot-steps
not far off upon the stones, and opening my eyes, I beheld a peasant going by among the chestnuts
by a footpath that I had not hitherto observed.  He turned his head neither to the right nor
to the left, and disappeared in a few strides among the foliage.  Here was an escape!  But
it was plainly more than time to be moving.  The peasantry were abroad; scarce less terrible
to me in my nondescript position than the soldiers of Captain Poul to an undaunted Camisard.
I fed Modestine with what haste I could; but as I was returning to my sack, I saw a man and
a boy come down the hillside in a direction crossing mine.  They unintelligibly hailed me,
and I replied with inarticulate but cheerful sounds, and hurried forward to get into my gaiters.

The pair, who seemed to be father and son, came slowly up to the plateau, and stood close beside
me for some time in silence.  The bed was open, and I saw with regret my revolver lying patently
disclosed on the blue wool.  At last, after they had looked me all over, and the silence had
grown laughably embarrassing, the man demanded in what seemed unfriendly tones:

'You have slept here?'

'Yes,' said I.  'As you see.'

'Why?' he asked.

'My faith,' I answered lightly, 'I was tired.'

He next inquired where I was going and what I had had for dinner; and then, without the least
transition, 'C'est bien,' he added, 'come along.' And he and his son, without another word,
turned off to the next chestnut- tree but one, which they set to pruning.  The thing had passed
of more simply than I hoped.  He was a grave, respectable man; and his unfriendly voice did
not imply that he thought he was speaking to a criminal, but merely to an inferior.

I was soon on the road, nibbling a cake of chocolate and seriously occupied with a case of
conscience.  Was I to pay for my night's lodging? I had slept ill, the bed was full of fleas
in the shape of ants, there was no water in the room, the very dawn had neglected to call me
in the morning.  I might have missed a train, had there been any in the neighbourhood to catch.
Clearly, I was dissatisfied with my entertainment; and I decided I should not pay unless I
met a beggar.

The valley looked even lovelier by morning; and soon the road descended to the level of the
river.  Here, in a place where many straight and prosperous chestnuts stood together, making
an aisle upon a swarded terrace, I made my morning toilette in the water of the Tarn.  It was
marvellously clear, thrillingly cool; the soap-suds disappeared as if by magic in the swift
current, and the white boulders gave one a model for cleanliness.  I went on with a light and
peaceful heart, and sang psalms to the spiritual ear as I advanced.

Suddenly up came an old woman, who point-blank demanded alms.

'Good,' thought I; 'here comes the waiter with the bill.'

And I paid for my night's lodging on the spot.  Take it how you please, but this was the first
and the last beggar that I met with during all my tour.

A step or two farther I was overtaken by an old man in a brown nightcap, clear-eyed, weather-beaten,
with a faint excited smile.  A little girl followed him, driving two sheep and a goat; but
she kept in our wake, while the old man walked beside me and talked about the morning and the
valley.  It was not much past six; and for healthy people who have slept enough, that is an
hour of expansion and of open and trustful talk.

'Connaissez-vous le Seigneur?' he said at length.

I asked him what Seigneur he meant; but he only repeated the question with more emphasis and
a look in his eyes denoting hope and interest.

'Ah,' said I, pointing upwards, 'I understand you now.  Yes, I know Him; He is the best of
acquaintances.'

The old man said he was delighted.  'Hold,' he added, striking his bosom; 'it makes me happy
here.'  There were a few who knew the Lord in these valleys, he went on to tell me; not many,
but a few.

The old man assured me he thought as I did, and repeated his expressions of pleasure at meeting
me.  'We are so few,' he said.  'They call us Moravians here; but down in the Department of
Gard, where there are also a good number, they are called Derbists, after an English pastor.'

I began to understand that I was figuring, in questionable taste, as a member of some sect
to me unknown; but I was more pleased with the pleasure of my companion than embarrassed by
my own equivocal position.  The truth is much talked about; but this old man in a brown nightcap
showed himself so simple, sweet, and friendly, that I am not unwilling to profess myself his
convert.  He was, as a matter of fact, a Plymouth Brother.  And although it was somewhat in
a mistake that he shook hands with me so often and showed himself so ready to receive my words,
that was a mistake of the truth-finding sort.  If I deceived this good old man, in the like
manner I would willingly go on to deceive others.  And if ever at length, out of our separate
and sad ways, we should all come together into one common house, I have a hope, to which I
cling dearly, that my mountain Plymouth Brother will hasten to shake hands with me again.

Thus, talking like Christian and Faithful by the way, he and I came down upon a hamlet by the
Tarn.  It was but a humble place, called La Vernede, with less than a dozen houses, and a Protestant
chapel on a knoll.  Here he dwelt; and here, at the inn, I ordered my breakfast.  The inn was
kept by an agreeable young man, a stone-breaker on the road, and his sister, a pretty and engaging
girl.  The village schoolmaster dropped in to speak with the stranger.  And these were all
Protestants--a fact which pleased me more than I should have expected; and, what pleased me
still more, they seemed all upright and simple people.  The Plymouth Brother hung round me
with a sort of yearning interest, and returned at least thrice to make sure I was enjoying
my meal.  His behaviour touched me deeply at the time, and even now moves me in recollection.
He feared to intrude, but he would not willingly forego one moment of my society; and he seemed
never weary of shaking me by the hand.

When all the rest had drifted off to their day's work, I sat for near half an hour with the
young mistress of the house, who talked pleasantly over her seam of the chestnut harvest, and
the beauties of the Tarn, and old family affections, broken up when young folk go from home,
yet still subsisting.  Hers, I am sure, was a sweet nature, with a country plainness and much
delicacy underneath; and he who takes her to his heart will doubtless be a fortunate young man.

The valley below La Vernede pleased me more and more as I went forward. Now the hills approached
from either hand, naked and crumbling, and walled in the river between cliffs; and now the
valley widened and became green.  The road led me past the old castle of Miral on a steep;
past a battlemented monastery, long since broken up and turned into a church and parsonage;
and past a cluster of black roofs, the village of Cocures, sitting among vineyards, and meadows,
and orchards thick with red apples, and where, along the highway, they were knocking down walnuts
from the roadside trees, and gathering them in sacks and baskets.  The hills, however much
the vale might open, were still tall and bare, with cliffy battlements and here and there a
pointed summit; and the Tarn still rattled through the stones with a mountain noise.  I had
been led, by bagmen of a picturesque turn of mind, to expect a horrific country after the heart
of Byron; but to my Scottish eyes it seemed smiling and plentiful, as the weather still gave
an impression of high summer to my Scottish body; although the chestnuts were already picked
out by the autumn, and the poplars, that here began to mingle with them, had turned into pale
gold against the approach of winter.

There was something in this landscape, smiling although wild, that explained to me the spirit
of the Southern Covenanters.  Those who took to the hills for conscience' sake in Scotland
had all gloomy and bedevilled thoughts; for once that they received God's comfort they would
be twice engaged with Satan; but the Camisards had only bright and supporting visions.  They
dealt much more in blood, both given and taken; yet I find no obsession of the Evil One in
their records.  With a light conscience, they pursued their life in these rough times and circumstances.
The soul of Seguier, let us not forget, was like a garden.  They knew they were on God's side,
with a knowledge that has no parallel among the Scots; for the Scots, although they might be
certain of the cause, could never rest confident of the person.

'We flew,' says one old Camisard, 'when we heard the sound of psalm-singing, we flew as if
with wings.  We felt within us an animating ardour, a transporting desire.  The feeling cannot
be expressed in words. It is a thing that must have been experienced to be understood.  However
weary we might be, we thought no more of our weariness, and grew light so soon as the psalms
fell upon our ears.'

The valley of the Tarn and the people whom I met at La Vernede not only explain to me this
passage, but the twenty years of suffering which those, who were so stiff and so bloody when
once they betook themselves to war, endured with the meekness of children and the constancy
of saints and peasants.

FLORAC

On a branch of the Tarn stands Florac, the seat of a sub-prefecture, with an old castle, an
alley of planes, many quaint street-corners, and a live fountain welling from the hill.  It
is notable, besides, for handsome women, and as one of the two capitals, Alais being the other,
of the country of the Camisards.

The landlord of the inn took me, after I had eaten, to an adjoining cafe, where I, or rather
my journey, became the topic of the afternoon.  Every one had some suggestion for my guidance;
and the sub-prefectorial map was fetched from the sub-prefecture itself, and much thumbed among
coffee- cups and glasses of liqueur.  Most of these kind advisers were Protestant, though I
observed that Protestant and Catholic intermingled in a very easy manner; and it surprised
me to see what a lively memory still subsisted of the religious war.  Among the hills of the
south-west, by Mauchline, Cumnock, or Carsphairn, in isolated farms or in the manse, serious
Presbyterian people still recall the days of the great persecution, and the graves of local
martyrs are still piously regarded. But in towns and among the so-called better classes, I
fear that these old doings have become an idle tale.  If you met a mixed company in the King's
Arms at Wigton, it is not likely that the talk would run on Covenanters.  Nay, at Muirkirk
of Glenluce, I found the beadle's wife had not so much as heard of Prophet Peden.  But these
Cevenols were proud of their ancestors in quite another sense; the war was their chosen topic;
its exploits were their own patent of nobility; and where a man or a race has had but one adventure,
and that heroic, we must expect and pardon some prolixity of reference.  They told me the country
was still full of legends hitherto uncollected; I heard from them about Cavalier's descendants--not
direct descendants, be it understood, but only cousins or nephews--who were still prosperous
people in the scene of the boy-general's exploits; and one farmer had seen the bones of old
combatants dug up into the air of an afternoon in the nineteenth century, in a field where
the ancestors had fought, and the great-grandchildren were peaceably ditching.

Later in the day one of the Protestant pastors was so good as to visit me: a young man, intelligent
and polite, with whom I passed an hour or two in talk.  Florac, he told me, is part Protestant,
part Catholic; and the difference in religion is usually doubled by a difference in politics.
You may judge of my surprise, coming as I did from such a babbling purgatorial Poland of a
place as Monastier, when I learned that the population lived together on very quiet terms;
and there was even an exchange of hospitalities between households thus doubly separated. 
Black Camisard and White Camisard, militiaman and Miquelet and dragoon, Protestant prophet
and Catholic cadet of the White Cross, they had all been sabring and shooting, burning, pillaging,
and murdering, their hearts hot with indignant passion; and here, after a hundred and seventy
years, Protestant is still Protestant, Catholic still Catholic, in mutual toleration and mild
amity of life.

I have never thought it easy to be just, and find it daily even harder than I thought.  I own
I met these Protestants with a delight and a sense of coming home.  I was accustomed to speak
their language, in another and deeper sense of the word than that which distinguishes between
French and English; for the true Babel is a divergence upon morals.  And hence I could hold
more free communication with the Protestants, and judge them more justly, than the Catholics.
Father Apollinaris may pair off with my mountain Plymouth Brother as two guileless and devout
old men; yet I ask myself if I had as ready a feeling for the virtues of the Trappist; or,
had I been a Catholic, if I should have felt so warmly to the dissenter of La Vernede.  With
the first I was on terms of mere forbearance; but with the other, although only on a misunderstanding
and by keeping on selected points, it was still possible to hold converse and exchange some
honest thoughts.

IN THE VALLEY OF THE MIMENTE

On Tuesday, 1st October, we left Florac late in the afternoon, a tired donkey and tired donkey-driver.
A little way up the Tarnon, a covered bridge of wood introduced us into the valley of the Mimente.
Steep rocky red mountains overhung the stream; great oaks and chestnuts grew upon the slopes
or in stony terraces; here and there was a red field of millet or a few apple-trees studded
with red apples; and the road passed hard by two black hamlets, one with an old castle atop
to please the heart of the tourist.

It was difficult here again to find a spot fit for my encampment.  Even under the oaks and
chestnuts the ground had not only a very rapid slope, but was heaped with loose stones; and
where there was no timber the hills descended to the stream in a red precipice tufted with
heather.  The sun had left the highest peak in front of me, and the valley was full of the
lowing sound of herdsmen's horns as they recalled the flocks into the stable, when I spied
a bight of meadow some way below the roadway in an angle of the river.  Thither I descended,
and, tying Modestine provisionally to a tree, proceeded to investigate the neighbourhood. 
A grey pearly evening shadow filled the glen; objects at a little distance grew indistinct
and melted bafflingly into each other; and the darkness was rising steadily like an exhalation.
I approached a great oak which grew in the meadow, hard by the river's brink; when to my disgust
the voices of children fell upon my ear, and I beheld a house round the angle on the other
bank.  I had half a mind to pack and be gone again, but the growing darkness moved me to remain.
I had only to make no noise until the night was fairly come, and trust to the dawn to call
me early in the morning.  But it was hard to be annoyed by neighbours in such a great hotel.

A hollow underneath the oak was my bed.  Before I had fed Modestine and arranged my sack, three
stars were already brightly shining, and the others were beginning dimly to appear.  I slipped
down to the river, which looked very black among its rocks, to fill my can; and dined with
a good appetite in the dark, for I scrupled to light a lantern while so near a house.  The
moon, which I had seen a pallid crescent all afternoon, faintly illuminated the summit of the
hills, but not a ray fell into the bottom of the glen where I was lying.  The oak rose before
me like a pillar of darkness; and overhead the heartsome stars were set in the face of the
night.  These same far-away worlds, sprinkled like tapers or shaken together like a diamond
dust upon the sky, had looked not otherwise to Roland or Cavalier, when, in the words of the
latter, they had 'no other tent but the sky, and no other bed than my mother earth.'

All night a strong wind blew up the valley, and the acorns fell pattering over me from the
oak.  Yet, on this first night of October, the air was as mild as May, and I slept with the
fur thrown back.

I was much disturbed by the barking of a dog, an animal that I fear more than any wolf.  A
dog is vastly braver, and is besides supported by the sense of duty.  If you kill a wolf, you
meet with encouragement and praise; but if you kill a dog, the sacred rights of property and
the domestic affections come clamouring round you for redress.  At the end of a fagging day,
the sharp cruel note of a dog's bark is in itself a keen annoyance; and to a tramp like myself,
he represents the sedentary and respectable world in its most hostile form.  There is something
of the clergyman or the lawyer about this engaging animal; and if he were not amenable to stones,
the boldest man would shrink from travelling afoot.  I respect dogs much in the domestic circle;
but on the highway, or sleeping afield, I both detest and fear them.

I was wakened next morning (Wednesday, October 2nd) by the same dog--for I knew his bark--making
a charge down the bank, and then, seeing me sit up, retreating again with great alacrity. 
The stars were not yet quite extinguished.  The heaven was of that enchanting mild grey-blue
of the early morn.  A still clear light began to fall, and the trees on the hillside were outlined
sharply against the sky.  The wind had veered more to the north, and no longer reached me in
the glen; but as I was going on with my preparations, it drove a white cloud very swiftly over
the hill- top; and looking up, I was surprised to see the cloud dyed with gold.  In these high
regions of the air, the sun was already shining as at noon.  If only the clouds travelled high
enough, we should see the same thing all night long.  For it is always daylight in the fields
of space.

As I began to go up the valley, a draught of wind came down it out of the seat of the sunrise,
although the clouds continued to run overhead in an almost contrary direction.  A few steps
farther, and I saw a whole hillside gilded with the sun; and still a little beyond, between
two peaks, a centre of dazzling brilliancy appeared floating in the sky, and I was once more
face to face with the big bonfire that occupies the kernel of our system.

I met but one human being that forenoon, a dark military-looking wayfarer, who carried a game-bag
on a baldric; but he made a remark that seems worthy of record.  For when I asked him if he
were Protestant or Catholic--

'Oh,' said he, 'I make no shame of my religion.  I am a Catholic.'

He made no shame of it!  The phrase is a piece of natural statistics; for it is the language
of one in a minority.  I thought with a smile of Bavile and his dragoons, and how you may ride
rough-shod over a religion for a century, and leave it only the more lively for the friction.
Ireland is still Catholic; the Cevennes still Protestant.

THE HEART OF THE COUNTRY

I was now drawing near to Cassagnas, a cluster of black roofs upon the hillside, in this wild
valley, among chestnut gardens, and looked upon in the clear air by many rocky peaks.  The
road along the Mimente is yet new, nor have the mountaineers recovered their surprise when
the first cart arrived at Cassagnas.  But although it lay thus apart from the current of men's
business, this hamlet had already made a figure in the history of France.  Hard by, in caverns
of the mountain, was one of the five arsenals of the Camisards; where they laid up clothes
and corn and arms against necessity, forged bayonets and sabres, and made themselves gunpowder
with willow charcoal and saltpetre boiled in kettles.  To the same caves, amid this multifarious
industry, the sick and wounded were brought up to heal; and there they were visited by the
two surgeons, Chabrier and Tavan, and secretly nursed by women of the neighbourhood.

Of the five legions into which the Camisards were divided, it was the oldest and the most obscure
that had its magazines by Cassagnas.  This was the band of Spirit Seguier; men who had joined
their voices with his in the 68th Psalm as they marched down by night on the archpriest of
the Cevennes.  Seguier, promoted to heaven, was succeeded by Salomon Couderc, whom Cavalier
treats in his memoirs as chaplain-general to the whole army of the Camisards.  He was a prophet;
a great reader of the heart, who admitted people to the sacrament or refused them, by 'intensively
viewing every man' between the eyes; and had the most of the Scriptures off by rote. In this portico
there are thirteen triglyphs with twelve spaces between them, making twenty-five divisions.
The required number of parts to draw the columns can be obtained in the same way.

LXII
ANOTHER METHOD OF ANGULAR PERSPECTIVE, BEING THAT ADOPTED IN OUR
ART SCHOOLS

In the previous method we have drawn our squares by means
of a geometrical plan, putting each point into perspective as required,
and then by means of the perspective drawing thus obtained, finding
our vanishing and measuring points.  M. de Caladon,
taking a stroll one fine day, walked without warning into their midst, as he might have walked
into 'a flock of sheep in a plain,' and found some asleep and some awake and psalm-singing.
A traitor had need of no recommendation to insinuate himself among their ranks, beyond 'his
faculty of singing psalms'; and even the prophet Salomon 'took him into a particular friendship.'
Thus, among their intricate hills, the rustic troop subsisted; and history can attribute few
exploits to them but sacraments and ecstasies.

People of this tough and simple stock will not, as I have just been saying, prove variable
in religion; nor will they get nearer to apostasy than a mere external conformity like that
of Naaman in the house of Rimmon.  When Louis XVI., in the words of the edict, 'convinced by
the uselessness of a century of persecutions, and rather from necessity than sympathy,' granted
at last a royal grace of toleration, Cassagnas was still Protestant; and to a man, it is so
to this day.  There is, indeed, one family that is not Protestant, but neither is it Catholic.
It is that of a Catholic cure in revolt, who has taken to his bosom a schoolmistress.  And
his conduct, it is worth noting, is disapproved by the Protestant villagers.

'It is a bad idea for a man,' said one, 'to go back from his engagements.'

The villagers whom I saw seemed intelligent after a countrified fashion, and were all plain
and dignified in manner.  As a Protestant myself, I was well looked upon, and my acquaintance
with history gained me further respect.  For we had something not unlike a religious controversy
at table, a gendarme and a merchant with whom I dined being both strangers to the place, and
Catholics.  The young men of the house stood round and supported me; and the whole discussion
was tolerantly conducted, and surprised a man brought up among the infinitesimal and contentious
differences of Scotland.  The merchant, indeed, grew a little warm, and was far less pleased
than some others with my historical acquirements. But the gendarme was mighty easy over it all.

'It's a bad idea for a man to change,' said he; and the remark was generally applauded.

