Such a small sum now remained that he felt that something must be done instantly. He concluded
that his only course now was to go out and pick up any odd bits of work that he could find.
He hoped that by working half the time he might make enough to pay for his board at his present
cheap lodging-place. This would leave him time to continue his writing, and in the course of
a week more he would certainly hear from the manuscripts already forwarded. On these he now
built nearly all his hope. If they were well received and paid for, he considered his fortunes
substantially restored, and fame almost a certainty in the future. If he could only produce
a few more manuscripts, and bridge over the intervening time until he could hear from them,
he felt that his chief difficulties would be past.

Having decided to do a laborer's work, he at once resolved to exchange his elegant broadcloth
for a laborer's suit, and he managed this transfer so shrewdly that he obtained quite a little
sum of money in addition.

It was well that he did replenish his finances somewhat, for his apparently phlegmatic landlord
was as wary as a veteran mouser in looking after his small interests. He had just obtained
an inkling as to Haldane's identity, and, while he was not at all chary concerning the social
and moral standing of his few uncertain lodgers, he proposed henceforth that all transactions
with the suspicious stranger should be on a strictly cash basis.

It was the busy spring-time, and labor was in great demand. Haldane wandered off to the suburbs,
and, as an ordinary laborer, offered his services in cleaning up yards, cutting wood, or forking
over a space of garden ground. His stalwart form and prepossessing appearance generally secured
him a favorable answer, but before he was through with his task he often received a sound scolding
for his unskilful and bungling style of work. But he in part made up by main strength what
he lacked in skill, and after two or three days he acquired considerable deftness in his unwonted
labors, and felt the better for them. They counteracted the effects of his literary efforts,
or, more correctly, his means of inspiration in them.

Thus another week passed, of which he gave three days to the production of two or three more
brief manuscripts, and during the following week he felt sure that he would hear from those
first sent.

He wrote throughout the hours of daylight on Sunday, scarcely leaving his chair, and drank
more deeply than usual. In consequence, he felt wretchedly on Monday, and, therefore, strolled
off to look for some employment that would not tax his aching head. Hitherto he had avoided
all localities where he would be apt to meet those who knew him; and by reason of his brief
residence in town there were comparatively few who were familiar with his features. He now
recalled the fact that he had often seen from his window, while an inmate of Mrs. Arnot's home,
quite a collection of cottages across a small ravine that ran a little back of that lady's
residence. He might find some work among them, and he yielded to the impulse to look again
upon the place where such rich and abundant happiness had once seemed within his grasp.

For several days he had been conscious of a growing desire to hear from his mother and Mrs.
Arnot, and often found himself wondering how they regarded his mysterious disappearance, or
whether reports of his vain inquiry for work had reached them.

With a pride and resolution that grew obstinate with time and failure, he resolved that he
would not communicate with them until he had something favorable to tell; and he hoped, and
almost believed, that before many days passed, he could address to them a literary weekly paper
in which they would find, in prominent position, the underscored initials of E. H. Until he
could be preceded by the first flashes of fame he would remain in obscurity. He would not even
let Mrs. Arnot know where he was hiding, so that she might send to him his personal effects
left at her house. Indeed, he had no place for them now, and was, besides, more morbidly bent
than ever on making good the proud words he had spoken. If, in the face of such tremendous
odds he could, alone and unaided, with nothing but his hands and brain, win again all and more
than he had lost, he could compel the respect and admiration of those who had witnessed his
downfall and consequent victorious struggle.

Was the girl who had inspired his sudden, and, as he had supposed, "undying" passion, forgotten
during these trying days? Yes, to a great extent. His self-love was greater than his love for
Laura Romeyn. He craved intensely to prove that he was no longer a proper object of her scorn.
She had rejected him as a slave to "disgusting vices," and such he had apparently shown himself
to be; but now he would have been willing to have dipped his pen in his own blood, and have
written away his life, if thereby he could have filled her with admiration and regret. Although
he scarcely acknowledged it to himself, perhaps the subtlest and strongest impulse to his present
course was the hope of teaching her that he was not what she now regarded him. But he was not
at that time capable of a strong, true affection for any one, and thoughts of the pretty maiden
wounded his pride more than his heart.

After arriving at the further bank of the ravine, back of Mrs. Arnot's residence, he sat down
for a while, and gave himself up to a very bitter revery. There, in the bright spring sunshine,
was the beautiful villa which might have been a second home to him. The gardener was at work
among the shrubbery, and the sweet breath of crocuses and hyacinths was floated to him on the
morning breeze. There were the windows of his airy, lovely room, in comparison with which the
place in which he now slept was a kennel. CENSUS EXAMINATION.

THE CENSUS OFFICE, WASHINGTON, D. C.

A CENSUS-TAKER AT WORK.

ELECTRIC TOWER AND FOUNTAINS [BUFFALO].

ETHNOLOGY BUILDING AND UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT BUILDING.
TEMPLE OF MUSIC BY ELECTRIC LIGHT.

GROUP OF BUFFALOS--PAN-AMERICAN
EXPOSITION.

ELECTRIC TOWER AT NIGHT.

TRIUMPHAL BRIDGE AND ENTRANCE
TO THE EXPOSITION, SHOWING ELECTRIC DISPLAY AT NIGHT.

THE ELECTRICITY
BUILDING.

PRESIDENT McKINLEY AT NIAGARA--ASCENDING THE STAIRS FROM
LUNA ISLAND TO GOAT ISLAND. (Copyright photograph, 1901, by C. E.
Dunlap).

THE LAST PHOTOGRAPH OF THE LATE PRESIDENT McKINLEY--TAKEN
AS HE WAS ASCENDING THE STEPS OF THE TEMPLE OF MUSIC, SEPTEMBER 6,
1901.

THE MILBURN RESIDENCE, WHERE PRESIDENT McKINLEY DIED--BUFFALO,
N. Y. (Copyright photograph, 1902, by Underwood & Underwood).

He went off among the cottages looking for employment, but found little encouragement. The
people were, as a general thing, in humble circumstances, and did their work among themselves.
But at last he found, near the ravine, a small dwelling standing quite apart from any others,
before which a load of wood had been thrown. The poor woman whose gateway it obstructed was
anxious to have it sawed up and carried to her little wood-shed, but was disposed to haggle
about the price.

"Give me what you please," said Haldane, throwing off his coat; "I take the job;" and in a
few moments the youth who had meditated indefinite heights of "gloomy grandeur" appeared--save
to the initiated--as if he had been born a wood-sawyer.

He was driving his saw in the usual strong, dogged manner in which he performed such tasks,
when a light step caused him to look up suddenly, and he found himself almost face to face
with Laura Romeyn. He started violently; the blood first receded from his face, and then rushed
tumultuously back. She, too, seemed much surprised and startled, and stopped hesitatingly,
as if she did not know what to do. But Haldane had no doubt as to his course. He felt that
he had no right to speak to her, and that she might regard it as an insult if he did; therefore
he bent down to his work again with a certain proud humility which Laura, even in her perturbation,
did not fail to notice.

In her diffidence and confusion she continued past him a few steps, and, although he expected
nothing less, the fact that she did not recognize or speak to him cut to his heart with a deeper
pain than he had yet suffered. With a gesture similar to that which he made when she saw him
on the way to prison, he dashed his hat down over his eyes, and drove his saw through the wood
with savage energy.

She looked at him doubtfully for a moment, then yielding to her impulse, came to his side.
His first intimation of her presence was the scarcely heard tones of her voice mingling with
the harsh rasping of the saw.

"Will you not speak to me, Mr. Haldane?" she asked.

He dropped his saw, stood erect, trembled slightly, but did not answer or even raise his eyes
to her face. His pain was so great he was not sure of his self-control.

"Perhaps," she added timidly, "you do not wish me to speak to you."

"I now have no right to speak to you, Miss Romeyn," he answered in a tone which his suppressed
feelings rendered constrained and almost harsh.

"But I feel sorry for you," said she quickly, "and so does my aunt, and she greatly--"

"I have not asked for your pity," interrupted Haldane, growing more erect and almost haughty
in his bearing, quite oblivious for a moment of his shirt-sleeves and bucksaw. What is more,
he made Laura forget them also, and his manner embarrassed her greatly. She was naturally gentle
and timid, and she deferred so far to his mood that one would have thought that she was seeking
to obtain kindness rather than to confer it.

"You misunderstand me," said she: "I do respect you for the brave effort you are making. I
respect you for doing this work. You cannot think it strange, though, that I am sorry for all
that has happened. But I did not intend to speak of myself at all--of Mrs. Arnot rather, and
your mother. They do not know where to find you, and wish to see and hear from you very much.
Mrs. Arnot has letters to you from your mother."

"The time shall come--it may not be so very far distant, Miss Romeyn--when it will be no condescension
on your part to speak to me," said Haldane loftily, ignoring all that related to Mrs. Arnot
and his mother, even if he heard it.

"I do not feel it to be condescension now," replied Laura, with almost the frank simplicity
of a child. "I cannot help feeling sympathy for you, even though you are too proud to receive
it." Then she added, with a trace of dignity and maidenly pride, "Perhaps when you have realized
your hopes, and have become rich or famous, I may not choose to speak to you. But it is not
my nature to turn from any one in misfortune, much less any one whom I have known well."

He looked at her steadily for a moment, and his lip quivered slightly with his softening feeling.

"You do not scorn me, then, like the rest of the world," said he in a low tone.

Tears stood in the young girl's eyes as she answered, "Mr. Haldane, I do feel deeply for you;
I know you have done very wrong, but that only makes you suffer more."

"How can you overlook the wrong of my action? Others think I am not fit to be spoken to," he
asked, in a still lower tone.

"I do not overlook the wrong," said she, gravely; "it seems strange and terrible to me; and
yet I do feel sorry for you, from the depths of my heart, and I wish I could help you."

"You have helped me," said he, impetuously; "you have spoken the first truly kind word that
has blessed me since I bade mother good-by. I was beginning to hate the hard-hearted animals
known as men and women. They trample me down like a herd of buffaloes."

"Won't you go with me and see Mrs. Arnot? She has letters for you, and she greatly wishes to
see you."

He shook his head.

"Why not?"

"I have the same as made a vow that I will never approach any one to whom I held my old relations
until I regain at least as good a name and position as I lost. I little thought we should meet
soon again, if ever, and still less that you would speak to me as you have done."

"I had been taking some delicacies from auntie to a poor sick woman, and was just returning,"
said Laura, blushing slightly. "I think your vow is very wrong. Your pride brings grief to
your mother, and pain to your good friend, Mrs. Arnot."

"I cannot help it," said he, in a manner that was gloomy and almost sullen; "I got myself into
this slough, and I intend to get myself out of it. I shall not take alms from any one."

"A mother cannot give her son alms," said Laura simply.

"The first words my mother said to me when my heart was breaking were, 'You have disgraced
me.' When I have accomplished that which will honor her I will return."

"I know from what auntie said that your mother did not mean any unkindness, and you surely
know that you have a friend in Mrs. Arnot."

"Mrs. Arnot has been a true friend, and no small part of my punishment is the thought of how
I have requited her kindness. I reverence and honor her more than any other woman, and I did
not know that you were so much like her. You both seem different from all the rest of the world.
But I shall take no advantage of her kindness or yours."

"Mr. Haldane," said Laura gravely, but with rising color, "I am not a woman. In years and feelings
I am scarcely more than a child. It may not be proper or conventional for me to stop and talk
so long to you, but I have acted from the natural impulse of a young girl brought up in a secluded
country home. I shall return thither tomorrow, and I am glad I have seen you once more, for
I wished you to know that I did feel sorry for you, and that I hoped you might succeed. I greatly
wish you would see Mrs. Arnot, or let me tell her where she can see you, and send to you what
she wishes. She has heard of you once or twice, but does not know where to find you. Will you
not let me tell her?"

He shook his head decidedly.

"Well, then, good-by," said she kindly, and was about to depart.

"Wait," he said hastily; "will you do me one small favor?"

"Yes, if I ought."

"This is my father's watch and chain," he continued, taking them off. "They are not safe with
me in my present life. I do not wish to have it in my power to take them to a pawnshop. I would
rather starve first, and yet I would rather not be tempted. I can't explain. You cannot and
should not know anything about the world in which I am living. Please give these to Mrs. Arnot,
and ask her to keep them till I come for them; or she can send them, with the rest of my effects,
to my mother. I have detained you too long already. Whatever may be my fate, I shall always
remember you with the deepest gratitude and respect."

There was distress in Laura's face as he spoke; but she took the watch and chain without a
word, for she saw that he was fully resolved upon his course.

"I know that Mrs. Arnot will respect my wish to remain in obscurity until I can come with a
character differing from that which I now bear. Your life would be a very happy one, Miss Romeyn,
if my wishes could make it so;" and the wood-sawyer bowed his farewell with the grace and dignity
of a gentleman, in spite of his coarse laborer's garb. He then resumed his work, to the great
relief of the woman, who had caught glimpses of the interview from her window, wondering and
surmising why the "young leddy from the big house" should have so much to say to a wood-sawyer.

"If she had a-given him a tract upon leavin', it would a-seemed more nateral like," she explained
to a crony the latter part of the day.

Mrs. Arnot did respect Haldane's desire to be left to himself until he came in the manner that
his pride dictated; but, after hearing Laura's story, she cast many a wistful glance toward
the one who, in spite of his grave faults and weaknesses, deeply interested her, and she sighed:

"He must learn by hard experience."

"Did I do wrong in speaking to him, auntie?" Laura asked.

"I do not think so. Your motive was natural and kindly; and yet I would not like you to meet
him again until he is wholly different in character, if that time ever comes."

CHAPTER XXI

MAGNANIMOUS MR. SHRUMPF

After the excitement caused by his unexpected interview with Laura subsided, and Haldane was
able to think it over quietly, it seemed to him that he had burned his ships behind him. He
must now make good his proud words, for to go "crawling back" after what he had said to-day,
and, of all persons, to the one whose opinion he most valued--this would be a humiliation the
thought of which even he could not endure.

Having finished his task, he scarcely glanced at the pittance which the woman reluctantly gave
him, and went straight to the city post-office. He was so agitated with conflicting hopes and
fears that his voice trembled as he asked if there were any letters addressed to E. H., and
he was so deeply disappointed that he was scarcely willing to take the careless negative given.
He even went to the express office, in the vague hope that the wary editors had remitted through
them; and the leaden weight of despondency grew heavier at each brisk statement:

"Nothing for E. H."

He was so weary and low-spirited when he reached his dismal lodgings that he felt no disposition
either to eat or drink, but sat down in the back part of the wretched, musty saloon, and, drawing
his hat over his eyes, he gave himself up to bitter thoughts. With mental imprecations he cursed
himself that he had not better understood the young girl who once had been his companion. Never
before had she seemed so beautiful as to-day, and she had revealed a forming character as lovely
as her person. She was like Mrs. Arnot--the woman who seemed to him perfect--and what more
could he say in her praise? And yet his folly had placed between them an impassable gulf. He
was not misled by her kindness, for he remembered her words, and now believed them, "If I ever
love a man he will be one that I can look up to and respect." If he could only have recognized
her noble tendencies he might have resolutely set about becoming such a man. If his character
had been pleasing to her, his social position would have given him the right to have aspired
to her hand. Why had he not had sufficient sense to have realized that she was young--much
too young to understand his rash, hasty passion? Why could he not have learned from her pure,
delicate face that she might possibly be won by patient and manly devotion, but would be forever
repelled from the man who wooed her like a Turk?

In the light of experience he saw his mistakes. From his present depth he looked up, and saw
the inestimable vantage ground which he once possessed. In his deep despondency he feared he
never would regain it, and that his hopes of literary success would prove delusive.

Regret like a cold, November wind, swept through all his thoughts and memories, and there seemed
nothing before him but a chill winter of blight and failure that would have no spring.

But he was not left to indulge his miserable mood very long, for his mousing landlord--having
finally learned who Haldane was, and all the unfavorable facts and comments with which the
press had abounded--now concluded that he could pounce upon him in such a way that something
would be left in his claws before the victim could escape.

That very morning Haldane had paid for his board to date, but had thoughtlessly neglected to
have a witness or take a receipt. The grizzled grimalkin who kept the den, and thrived as much
by his small filchings as from his small profits, had purred to himself, "Very goot, very goot,"
on learning that Haldane's word would not be worth much with the public or in court; and no
yellow-eyed cat ever waited and watched for his prey with a quieter and cooler deliberation
than did Weitzel Shrumpf, the host of the dingy little hotel.

After Haldane appeared he delayed until a few cronies whom he could depend upon had dropped
in, and then, in an off-hand way, stepped up to the despondent youth, and said:

"I zay, mister, you been here zwei week; I want you bay me now."

"What do you mean?" asked Haldane, looking up with an uncomprehending stare.

"Dis is vot I mean; you buts me off long nuff. I vants zwei weeks' bort."

"I paid you for everything up to this morning, and I have had nothing since."

"O, you have baid me--strange I did not know. Vill you bays now ven I does know?"

"I tell you I have paid you!" said Haldane, starting up.

"Vel, vell, show me der receipt, an I says not von vort against him."

"You did not give me a receipt."

"No, I thinks not--not my vay to give him till I gits de moneys."

"You are an unmitigated scoundrel. I won't pay you another cent."

"Lock dat door, Carl," said the landlord, coolly, to one of his satellites. "Now, Mister Haldane,
you bays, or you goes to jail. You has been dare vonce, and I'll but you dare dis night if
you no bays me."

"Gentlemen, I appeal to you to prevent this downright villany," cried Haldane.

"I sees no villany," said one of the lookers-on, stolidly. "You shows your receipt, and he
no touch you."

"I neglected to take a receipt. I did not know I was dealing with a thief."

"Ho, ho, ho!" laughed the landlord; "he tinks I vas honest like himself, who vas jus' out of jail!"

"I won't pay you twice," said Haldane doggedly.

"Carl, call de policeman, den."

"Wait a moment; your rascality will do you no good, and may get you into trouble. I have very
little money left."

"Den you can leave your vatch till you brings de money."

"Ah, thank Heaven! that is safe, and beyond your clutches."

"In a pawnshop? or vas he stolen, like de tousand dollar, and you been made give him up?"

Haldane had now recovered himself sufficiently to realize that he was in an ugly predicament.
He was not sufficiently familiar with the law to know how much power his persecutor had, but
feared, with good reason, that some kind of a charge could be trumped up which would lead to
his being locked up for the night. Then would follow inevitably another series of paragraphs
in the papers, deepening the dark hues in which they had already portrayed his character. He
could not endure the thought that the last knowledge of him that Laura carried away with her
from Hillaton should be that he was again in jail, charged with trying to steal his board and
lodging from a poor and ignorant foreigner; for he foresaw that the astute Shrumpf, his German
landlord, would appear in the police court in the character of an injured innocent. He pictured
the disgust upon her face as she saw his name in the vile connection which this new arraignment
would occasion, and he felt that he must escape it if possible. Although enraged at Shrumpf's
false charge, he was cool enough to remember that he had nothing to oppose to it save his own
unsupported word; and what was that worth in Hillaton? The public would even be inclined to
believe the opposite of what he affirmed. Therefore, by a great effort, he regained his self-control,
and said firmly and quietly:

"Shrumpf, although you know I have paid you, I am yet in a certain sense within your power,
since I did not take your receipt. I have not much money left, but after I have taken out fifty
cents for my supper and bed you can take all the rest. My watch is in the hands of a friend,
and you can't get that, and you can't get any more than I have by procuring my arrest; so take
your choice. I don't want to have trouble with you, but I won't go out penniless and spend
the night in the street, and if you send for a policeman I will make you all the trouble I
can, and I promise you it will not be a little."

Herr Shrumpf, conscious that he was on rather delicate ground, and remembering that he was
already in bad odor with the police authorities, assumed a great show of generosity.

"I vill not be tough," he said, "ven a man's boor and does all vat he can; I knows my rights,
and I stands up for him, but ven I gits him den I be like von leetle lamb. I vill leave you
tree quarter dollar, and you bays der rest vat you have, and we says nothing more 'bout him."

"You are right--the least said the better about this transaction. I've been a fool, and you
are a knave, and that is all there is to say. Here are seventy-five cents, which I keep, and
there are four dollars, which is all I have--every cent. Now unlock your door and let me out."

"I tinks you has more."

"You can search my pockets if you wish. If you do, I call upon these men present to witness
the act, for, as I have said, if you go beyond a certain point I will make you trouble, and
justly, too."

"Nah, nah! vat for I do so mean a ting? You but your hand in my bocket ven you takes my dinners,
my lagers, and my brandies, but I no do vat no shentlemens does. You can go, and ven you brings
de full moneys for zwei weeks' bort I gives you receipt for him."

Haldane vouchsafed no reply, but hastened away, as a fly would escape from a spider's web.
The episode, intensely disagreeable as it was, had the good effect of arousing him out of the
paralysis of his deep despondency. Besides, he could not help congratulating himself that he
had avoided another arrest and all the wretched experience which must have followed.

He concluded that there was no other resource for him that night save "No. 13," the lodging-house
in the side street where "no questions were asked"; and, having stolen into another obscure
restaurant, he obtained such a supper as could be had for twenty-five cents. A majority being
the constitutional quorum, theretofore, unless a majority answered to their names upon roll-call, no
majority appeared of record, although the sergeant-at-arms was empowered to compel the presence
of every member.
 He managed to get a bed near a window, which he raised slightly, and fatigue soon
brought oblivion.

CHAPTER XXII

A MAN WHO HATED HIMSELF

The light of the following day brought little hope or courage; but Haldane started out, after
a meagre breakfast, to find some means of obtaining a dinner and a place to sleep. He was not
as successful as usual, and noon had passed before he found anything to do.

As he was plodding wearily along through a suburb he heard some one behind a high board fence
speaking so loudly and angrily that he stopped to listen, and was not a little surprised to
find that the man was talking to himself. For a few moments there was a sound of a saw, and
when it ceased, a harsh, querulous voice commenced again:

"A-a-h"--it would seem that the man thus given to soliloquy often began and finished his sentences
with a vindictive and prolonged guttural sound like that here indicated--"Miserable hand at
sawin' wood! Why don't you let some one saw it that knows how? Tryin' to save a half dollar;
when you know it'll give you the rheumatiz, and cost ten in doctor bills! 'Nother thing; it's
mean--mean as dirt. You know there's poor devils who need the work, and you're cheatin' 'em
out of it. But it's just like yer! A-a-h!" and then the saw began again.

